> I look back and I see colorful, intricate lineages and autonomous patterns of identity, all converging independently, yet intertwined into me. I look forward and all I see is grey.. all I can see is grey.

"boleh faham sikit sikit.." I say to my extended family, signifying that I can understand a little of Malay, but not really that much.

They laugh, and try to tell me something I don't understand. My grandfather translates it to English for me, and I respond in English. It's been 15 seconds and I've already reached my limit with Malay. 15 seconds and I've already shown the gap between an Malay-American kid and his "real" Malay family.

Is that all Malay is to me? 15 seconds? Give me any topic in English and I will go off for hours on it, talk to me in Malay and I will give you 15 seconds before we switch back to English.

15 seconds

behind me is beautiful ancestry

behind me is centuries of practice relayed over the years

hundreds of traditional stories, tales, fables

decibels of laughter in the family house

there is love, there is faith, there is belonging

these strands of tradition, of cultural memory, they are intertwined neatly and locked in a safe box that is passed down generation by generation

they stretch, combine, and diverge into my soul. they feed into me and force themselves into me, leaving tattoos of belonging on my heart, vibrations of perspective in my head, lost words and languages on my tongue

i carry them as i walk through this country i was raised in, a country that feels as comfortable as it does foreign. a country which feels as accepting as it feels othering. i was born in america, but am i american? are my brown skin, my slight unibrow, my ambiguous features, are they american?

yet who am i if not american? i look back at my heritage, then i look at myself, and we are of different essence. we are different, our movements are different, our practices. i struggle to believe we are the same
