Mangoes

-Haven’t had a mango for years (maybe leave this for later for piece development?) - 2014, when I was 17
-Source of pride among my friends (children of Pakistani and Indian immigrants)
-Only available to people who are willing to pay for expensive imported mangoes, or for people who go back
-Truth is, I haven’t had a mango for years, even though I take great pride in it, and ostracize those who don’t buy the hype
-I don’t even remember much about it. I had it when I was visiting as a kid (12?), and I knew they were hyped (my family talked a lot about it), but I really don’t remember much. I guess you don’t have the experience to make a judgment like that when you’re so young. But I liked it
-Haven’t been back to Pakistan since the last family wedding
-My family immigrated - once a few people immigrated, the rest of the family came (Pakistan families stay together)
-Only go back for weddings, and most of my older cousins have gotten married. My father is the youngest of his siblings (by 10 years), and now it’s my turn
--Some commentary on marriage pressure
-I’m also mixed race, so it’s hard to go back ‘home’ to two countries a year, so now we just go to Malaysia because there’s more family there
--Commentary on being mixed race
--Friends poke fun at me not being Malaysian or Pakistani enough, and I take it in stride, but it’s true. I haven’t been back to Pakistan in 5 years, haven’t had a mango since then
-Distance from mangoes, and from the cultural signifiers my father and family took stock in
--Will this distance increase? My family lives in America now, will we become more American as the generations progress? Will we still love mangoes?
--Kabhi Kushi Kabhi Gham, don't watch Bollywood movies anymore - I want to?
--Am I an impostor? Aren't we all?

It's a matter of pride.

Yes, a matter of pride. A matter of national and ethnic identity, a double braided, nylon rope holding us all together.

To denounce mangoes is to denounce our heritage, I would say. My childhood friends — a miscellaneous group of average brown boys growing up in San Jose — instilled this chauvinistic attitude towards mangoes in me, much more so than my family did. Some of us were Pakistani, some were Indian, but when it came to mangoes, those differences were as artificial as.. well, the borders they were founded upon. Even the non-South Asians in the group would join in from time to time. After all, Vietnamese, Malaysian, and Filipino mangoes have a reputation second only to their South Asian counterparts.

You could say us children of immigrants take food seriously, in a different way than our parents do. For our parents, a mango is a mango — the fuzzy fruit carries a full, juicy kind of sweetness missing from the superficial and flimsy sweets of America. (Do I sound biased? No matter.) But while our families adore mangoes, they are no more stuck-up about it than you are about your (I am about my?) favorite children's TV show. But us second-gen folks don't play games. Our nostalgia is scattered, at best, thus we fixate on these identity markers to strengthen our fragmentary connection to our homeland.

So when that one friend in our little squad says he thinks mangoes are overrated, we pounce on him. All of a sudden, his loyalties are called into question ("Always knew you wanted to be white.."), and his taste in food is discredited ("His opinion doesn't count, he hates mangoes"). The performative nature of identity shines most to me in these moments of half-serious jest.

Of course, not all of it is performative. Proximity to South Asian mangoes isn't arbitrary — in order to have access to them, you either have to visit "home" frequently enough, or you have to be willing to pay for mangoes imported to the US. Most recently immigrated families are too frugal to buy imported mangoes (or they think it's not the same), and the families that have been here longer don't have the same nostalgia for it. This means, in some ways, your love for mangoes really does represent how often you visit your homeland, and consequently your proximity to your culture.

Why we feel the need to flaunt a supposed cultural authenticity, and compete with each other on it, I don't entirely know. But needless to say, I join in the teasing; I even instigate it sometimes. Don't we all have our ways, healthy or not, of compensating for our vulnerable identities?

Now, I must confess: I haven't actually **had** a mango in forever. I only have a faint recollection as to how it tastes, the way it feels in my mouth. I haven't been back to Pakistan in over 5 years, yet I claim mangoes as my favorite fruit. Am I to blame? The last few times we went to Pakistan were for weddings, and most of my older cousins got married years ago. As the oldest child of my father, the youngest of his siblings by 10 years, I'm next in line. Given that there is absolutely no chance in hell I'm getting married anytime soon, it feels almost my own fault that I won't be tasting a mango in the foreseeable future. And the next time I visit Pakistan, I will be an entirely different person than the 17 year old who visited last.

Being mixed doesn't help. My mom's side of the family is Malaysian, meaning every year, since my birth, we've had to choose which country to visit that year, if we travel at all. Pakistani families stay together, at all costs, so over time, everyone found a way to move to the US (even if it meant 3 families living in one house). Malaysian people, similar to Japanese people, stay in Malaysia, even if they do their undergrad in America. This means, the last 5 years, we have our Christmas breaks in Malaysia, not Pakistan. Of course, my brothers and I love Malaysia, and in many ways we prefer it. But to think, my younger brothers can barely remember Pakistan. My youngest brother has only been there once or twice, when he was a toddler. Is he as Pakistani as I am? Am I as Pakistani as my friends are?

When my friends tease me about not being Pakistani enough, I take it, because it's true. I haven't watched a Bollywood movie since Obama was first elected. I can't speak Urdu to save my life, and my understanding is limited to what my uncle says before he gets impatient and switches to English. I don't even like Gulab Jamun, man. Rasmalai is fine. And I absolutely hate Jalebi. Honestly, it sucks.

Of course, I still identify as Pakistani, and as Malaysian. I still perform those identities, very much so, even if it's the second-gen, memey Asian-American version. But how much of identity is performative and definitional, and how much of is it 'active'? How often must I visit these countries, eat their food, talk in their languages, and understand their pop cultures, to be fully Pakistani or Malaysian? Can I get a percentage, at least? What is the formula? I **need** the formula, Batman!

My distance from mangoes symbolizes my distance from all the cultural signifiers my father and family would take stock in. Over the years, this distance has only increased. I have fond childhood memories of playing cricket with my dad and cousins, but I haven't touched a bat since middle school. I watched all the classics from the early 2000s with my family: Lagaan, Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham, Munna Bhai M.B.B.S., you name it, but ask me about any Bollywood movie post-2005 and you'll get a blank stare. I guess, over time, not only was I Americanized, but my parents were too. My cousins, my uncles and aunts, my friends, even my grandmother, in her own way.

And I'm left to wonder: Will this distance continue to increase, despite ourselves? With each generation, will the identity carried on become more uniquely (Asian) American and less Asian? Will mangoes still receive such adoration from the third, fourth, and fifth generations of our families? Should they? I can't tell you why such insignificant memes matter so much to me — maybe it's the feeling of a tradition passing, a history and culture vanishing, all to be replaced and reformed by their descendants. But really, these are things I feign connection to as well, practices I cannot entirely claim myself. Am I an impostor? Aren't we all?

As I ponder these questions, I think back to last month, when I was back in San Jose, the place I grew up and where the rest of my family is. There was a festive, candid spirit in the air, a unique mood that comes after Ramadan, when we fast, worship, and reflect unremittingly for 30 days (or 29, depending on who you ask). It was Eid-ul-Fitr, my favorite holiday of the year, and the family was back together again. We sat in my uncle's living room. This living room has been around since my childhood, and my eyes relax at the sight of its khaki-colored walls, the sagging brown couches, and the newer, more modern-looking orange sectional.

Our Eid gatherings come with few surprises, as is tradition. The adults sit around leisurely, some drinking chai, while the kids play, running between the living room and the office. I, being at that awkward age between 15 and 25, alter between the two settings. I listen to my dad and uncle argue about American politics for 20 minutes, then I pay a visit to my 10 year old nephew and his 13 year old sister playing a children's flash game in the office. In the kitchen, my aunt makes seviyan, a milky pudding made with vermicelli noodles — my favorite dessert ever. Once she finishes, we start opening the Eid presents and distributing Eidi, little envelopes of money and magic. It's nice being an unmarried brown guy because it means I still receive Eidi from my aunts and uncles, despite being a working adult. I go home late at night with a pocket full of cash and a stomach full of seviyan.

As the generations progress, maybe things will change. Maybe I'll be making the seviyan, though mine can never be as good as my aunt's. Maybe the Urdu idioms we use will be replaced by English ones. Maybe the living room will have a different color scheme, or be in a different part of town, and American news will be playing in the background instead of GEO News. Maybe my brothers and I won't be the only mixed kids in the room.

But all the same, I pray we will sit together, in the living room, for years to come. I pray we share laughs, stories, even arguments at times, as we foster a home and heritage passed down to us. We will be sharing in our identities, however we understand them, and honoring our tradition, in whatever way we can. In a world of shifting cultures, muddled identities, and a rapidly changing social landscape, that's all we may do.
