Thoughts and prayers are reactionary
We have our own way of dealing with trauma - established over thousands of years
Direct support is the easiest thing to turn to, and often the most intuitive, but many times it's not the answer
In fact, while it's the most satisfying to talk to your friend about their trauma, sometimes it ends up imposing emotional labor to the other person, they feel compelled to thank you, to make you feel validated, that you made a difference
The best way to help people is actually indirect: changing policy, organizing, having conversations with your family/friends behind closed doors
Indirect support is hard because there's no feedback mechanism, there is no one saying thank you (though you're also absolving them from providing emotional labor or validation)

But this doesn't mean to stay away from direct support entirely. In fact, what makes the most sense is to go through this process with the very people who are impacted by it. This way, the feedback mechanism works for everyone: you can be validated when you do good work, and those impacted can witness you doing it instead of only seeing you pop up right after a tragedy happens

Direct support: Reactionary, more fulfilling, interpersonal, potentially large change on a smaller scale
Indirect support: Proactive, more tedious, institutional, small change on a larger scale

The Christchurch shooting hit the global Muslim community particularly hard. Speaking as a Muslim, islamophobia isn't new. Speaking as an American, a mass shooting isn't either. But this one hurt particularly deep for one reason or another. It could be the nature of the event and its unpredictability. It could be that the entire tragedy was filmed and uploaded online. Whatever it was, I could sense the Muslim community weeping, throughout the world, after it happened.

At the time, there were a lot of takes from non-Muslim friends and public figures. Posts, press conferences, online articles, they were a dime a dozen. They weren't ill-intentioned by any means — most were supportive, denouncing the shooter (though a mass shooting is easy to denounce for even the most extreme of political backgrounds). But they all felt very similar. For such a politically charged event, it seemed everyone had something to say, but none of those things brought anything new to the table. The reactions were conventional, cookie cutter responses to tragedy. Shock, empathy, and an offering of support.

And that's mostly okay. But every (non-Muslim) take had one thing in common: They assumed they had the power, obligation, and exigency to support the victims. They assumed they were needed, and not just needed, but needed specifically for their thoughts and prayers.

This post isn't intended to mock the action of providing "thoughts and prayers". Honest to God, telling people that you're there for them, praying for them, and mourning, they have their place. But Muslims know how to do that. We have our own ways of dealing with trauma and tragedy. I mean, we literally have practices and rituals established over thousands of years. After the tragedy, my first thought wasn't to turn to my non-Muslim friends for support. I went to my mosque, I listened to the sermon, I worshipped and I mourned.

Direct support—meaning emotional care, reaching out directly to victims, even GoFundMe's and charities—is often the easiest thing to turn to. It's often the most intuitive; after all, where else do you go to help in a tragedy besides the actual victims themselves? But it's not always the answer. Sometimes, it can hurt. While it may be satisfying to talk to someone about their trauma, it can create a power dynamic. In response, the victim feels indebted to you, they feel compelled to thank you, to validate you and show that you made a difference.

Regardless of how effective direct support is, it definitely isn't enough. Instead, the best way to help people is through "indirect" support. For example, changing policy, organizing, having conversations with your family/friends behind closed doors. It's hard because there's no feedback mechanism — you often don't get to see the fruits of your labor, no one is necessarily thanking you for your work (though this also means no one is expected to provide emotional labor of validation).

Direct support has its uses, and we should still provide direct support to our friends who are impacted by these events. But we should do both. The only reason we have such a difference between direct and indirect support is because we center the allies in this discussion. In any situation, allies should be going through this process of change and progress with the very people who are impacted by it. You should be doing the work behind closed doors, but also be present in these communities if they need you more directly. If you are in touch with the communities that are impacted, you will know what the needs of the community are. People will trust you, and you will have relationships to exchange with. Once people can tell you are putting in the work, once people can tell you are a true #ally, they will feel comfortable asking you for help. You don't even have to performatively offer it to them. They will ask, and you will know when.

Direct support is reactionary. It only comes after tragedy. It's a response. So the next time something happens, think about your reaction. Are you responding to events, letting them happen before you feel inspired to do change? Or are you acting proactively? Have you talked to your aunt (one on one, or with the rest of your family) who spreads rumors about Muslim "rituals"? Did you speak up when your friend said your Muslim friend is too "conservative" to be invited to their housewarming? Are you actively making sure the Muslims who come to your spaces feel welcome and normal, and are you following up with them if they stop coming?

Every time something like this happens, I see millions of statuses by "allies" claiming they're here for their Muslim friends. Some of my more woke friends are nicer to me for around a week. But once the news passes, the non-Muslim spaces I frequent feel the same. You all manage to go back to your lives. We can't. We are reminded of our identity every single day. So help us change this. Don't just be the bandaid for us. Be part of the solution. Act without being acted upon.
