---
layout:     post
title:      colors
date:       2017-02-24 01:13:32
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    Spoken word piece on race and being mixed race.
categories: poetry
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - identity
  - mixed
  - poetry
  - race
---
(add more metaphors)
i look back and i see color

i see shades of white, blue, green, and red

the flags of the three countries i can call home

they mesh, melt, and mix into me

intertwine and wrap around each other

yet remain independent and distinct

i can pick each out as i will

and examine them, like fruits at a grocery store

i pick them up and look

into the infinite histories of my lineages

listen to stories and decisions that brought me here today

these colors:

they weave into my being, fill me with the substance of identity

<br>
yet how can such intricate histories join in just one person?

how can they fit into my small being?

can i ever do justice to my traditions, my histories, and my heritages?

will my hunched shoulders crumble bearing such infinities?

<br>
"tak boleh cakap melayu banyak banyak"

i tell to my extended family

revealing that i cannot speak my mother's language

confessing their broken english is better than my broken malay

acknowledging that i look different because i'm really just american

conceding that generation after generation of tradition, of language, of culture, is fading with me

and admitting that my parents left their homes to settle in this foreign country, for me

and i can barely mutter a broken "thank you" in their language

<br>
but i swear i try

i fight for every inch, every word, every lost tie to my legacy

i fight to protect my lineage from being erased in the american melting pot

i fight to educate ignorance of the traditions, religions, and cultures that are so prosperous yet profoundly misunderstood

i fight for my family's right to live in a country that rejects who they are

<br>
i balance two ancestries converging into me

i see so many colors lead into me

but what color am i?

what colors will i hand over when i die?

how can i preserve a plural of legacies when i can't rightly wield one?

and why try when white america sees them all as the same?

<br>
liberals claim that mixed kids are the solution to race

they claim we dismantle the concept of race just by existing

they claim we dissolve race, like soluble pills to cure their disease of racism

they claim we relax the stress on race

<br>
yet i feel no peace

i only feel turbulence

i feel turmoil in the uproar of my soul

my body is a battlefield

with disorder and constant unrest between powerful identities

my identities clash and blend, then agitate again

my racial narrative is alive and it will never die down

me, solve society's understanding of race? i cant even solve my own

<br>
I look back and I see colorful, intricate lineages and autonomous patterns of identity, all converging independently, yet intertwined into me. I look forward and all I see is grey.. all I see is grey.
