---
layout:     post
title:      who am i?
date:       2017-02-11 15:54:02
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    Thoughts on being mixed race and a hyphenated American.
categories: personal
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - erasure
  - identity
  - immigration
  - mixed
  - race
---
I just finished reading a piece about the efforts of trying to "preserve" Navajo culture. It talked about how despite good efforts to record and document, it will never compare to the actual living embodiment of that culture -- recording an oral story is not the same as performing it in your community and passing it on in person. And unfortunately, those methods are fading and being erased slowly. The reading had an almost fatalistic vibe to it, as if there's really not much they could do about it anymore.

I don't claim to understand anything about Navajo stories or history, and their stories are much different than my own, but it kind of triggered something in me, thinking about my own identity as a mixed race kid born to immigrants, who can act 'American' before he can act 'Pakistani' or 'Malaysian'. It made me think about the cultural power of the United States and how the pursuit of whiteness and Americanness necessarily diminishes our expression of our own "culture" and heritage.

It made me think about the trope of the "Asian rebel", who, having grown up in the States, doesn't really see eye to eye with their parents or family, and has to distance their lives from their family's because of that. It made me think how, despite my own best efforts to preserve my own complicated heritage, I'll always be fighting an uphill battle. It will be uphill because I grew up in America, all my assumptions are American, my style of living is American. Even when I go back "home", to Pakistan or Malaysia, I struggle to live for a few days how my grandparents and extended family live on a daily basis. If I can't even handle bad WiFi, slightly problematic language (from my American perspective), and cold showers (i.e. pouring a bucket of river water on your back), it's clear living as my grandparents did, in the kampung (village) would be completely out of the question.

Hence, I feel like some sort of fraud. A guy who pretends to be Asian, but when it comes down to it, he really just lives like an American. When it comes down to it, he can't even speak his parents' language without stuttering, forgetting, then switching to English because his cousins and grandparents can speak fluent English anyway (thanks, Western-oriented globalization). When it comes down to it, his idea of having a good time is listening to some edgy American music and playing edgy American video games, things some of my family would look down upon. When it comes down to it, his friends are hyphenated Americans too, and he can't even make friends with people who actually come straight from Pakistan or Malaysia, whether that's international students, family, or just recent immigrants.

So, when it comes down to it, what do I even have to claim? I pride myself off being able to eat the spicy food people have back "home" that white people couldn't even touch, off being raised at least understanding my parents' languages, off continuing my parents' religious practices, but it still feels so superficial, and so incomplete. I feel like I go through the motions but there is no core, to back it up, because my core, who I am in my heart, has become American.

And what even is American? We think of it as some melting pot, as a nation of many different cultures, identities, and backgrounds, but is it? Or are there clear racial hierarchies in how we operate as Americans? Do we not look down on those with heavy accents or slangs, do we not look down on those who wear those "restricting" headscarves, do we not look down on the films and musics from other countries because they just aren't as "developed" as ours? Are we not all striving for "whiteness", for "progress", for "success", and for "freedom"? Even when I "reject" problematic practices in my traditions, whether it's homophobia or competitive elitism and a disregard for the arts, what am I leaving them for? When I say I want to "express myself more creatively", "follow my dreams", "fight for justice", and "do what I want", are these ideas not American in nature? Am I myself not American in nature, then?

In the reading, the writer reflects on a Navajo woman telling her, "We Navajos will survive as long as the stories are wet with our breath." Story-telling is different and unique for the Navajo, but it made me think: Am I doing the equivalent for my own cultures, to carry them on and help them "survive"? Am I carrying on the practices of my parents, and my parents' parents, and so on? Or am I picking and choosing what I want, i.e. some of the food, some of the dress, some of the religion, but not really anything else? Being mixed makes this even harder, as not only do I have two heritages to maintain, but they are both "50%" of me. And I know, chances are, my kids will have an even smaller percentage of at least one of these, because come on, how many half-Malaysian half-Pakistani people have you met?

So then, will my kids continue to dilute their heritage like I have, and so on, until it is erased? God knows when I'll leave this Earth, but after I do, will I lose part of my culture with me? And when my parents leave this Earth themselves, what will be lost with them?

I know a classic question asked in philosophy is, "Who am I?" But being a mixed-race, first generation hyphenated American gives me even more depth and dimension to a question homogeneous white men would ask. Who am I, really? Am I American, am I Pakistani, am I Malaysian? Am I all of them? And if I can be all of them, does that necessarily mean I can't be any of those completely? What will I leave behind, and what will I take when I die?

..

I look back and I see colorful, intricate lineages and autonomous patterns of identity, all converging independently, yet intertwined into me. I look forward and all I see is grey.. all I can see is grey.
