---
layout:     post
title:      leave
date:       2017-06-15 20:43:59
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    A fictional short story on love. Yes, love. Again. Sorry.
categories: fiction
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - dialogue
  - fiction
  - love
---
Rin shook, and immediately sat up, on their arms. It almost scared me, given that I was lost in my thoughts. I shot a small glance of acknowledgment and they smiled tiredly back, then went back to rubbing their eyes.

"Hey, Rin. Have you ever been so in love that you wished you weren't?"

"Want me to be honest?"

"Of course."

"Well, I don't think I've ever been in love."

"Not even with that one girl?"

"Rye? No, of course not. Don't make me laugh. Have you?"

"Been in love? Yeah. But I hate it every time. It hurts. I'm better off alone."

"Come on, Kev. Stop being so angsty."

"I mean it. It's the worst. Not that you would know."

"Fair enough. I guess I can't say."

"You'd hate it. It's like you like someone so much that your brain decides to give them control of your emotions. Because it trusts them more than it trusts you."

"Mind control, huh?"

"Yeah. Mind and body."

"TMI. Please."

"Sorry."

"I don't know, I think I'd like that, though."

"Well, you love yourself. For us insecure people, we end up just losing control. Because we love something else more than we could ever love ourselves. And when they leave, you have to start back from square one. With no one but the very self you hate to help you through it."

"Sounds unhealthy."

"That's insecurity and anxiety for you. Unhealthy."

"Hey, don't you think I look so stupid in this robe?"

"Yeah. This isn't really your scene. Though it's not much better than your hipster coat."

"Oh, fuck you. I like it."

"Ugh, you do love yourself. I hate it."

"Yeah, it's sad the world will be devoid of me soon."

"Sigh. It really is."

"Sorry to remind you. We are in a hospital, though. And I'm hooked up to a bunch of machines. Figured it's already obvious."

"I almost forgot."

"I need to go back to sleep. I'm already exhausted."

"Alright, I should be heading back home soon anyway."

"Wait, you never answered your own question."

"What?"

"Half the time you ask me a question, you're just trying to get me to ask it back. So, have you been so in love that you wished you weren't?"

"Not yet, Rin. Now go to sleep. I'll see you tomorrow."

"Night. One more week left."

"One more week. See ya."

I walked out of the depressing, eggshell-white hospital room, and waved good night to the lone nurse sitting at the counter. As I walked through the badly lit corridor of the hospital, towards the exit, I looked down to my dark brown loafers.

"Please don't leave, Rin. I can't let go of you."
