---
layout:     post
title:      In Search of Home - Chapter 4 Intro [FIRST DRAFT]
date:       2019-11-07 02:04:30
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    The first draft of the beginning of chapter 4 of my novel, In Search of Home.
categories: stories
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - family
  - fiction
  - home
  - identity
---
Zahra loved things until she loved people. She grew up in a large house in Defense, Lahore – it wasn't hers, or her family's, but it was a world in itself. She explored the house, like it was a world, she explored her neighborhood after school, and when she ran out of worlds to explore, she found more in her books and in her own writings as well. She loved to explore worlds, and she loved the unique things that occupied them. In her home, there was the little room between the kitchen and bathroom, a makeshift pantry in the space before the edge of the house where you could climb up to the roof from the window there. There, she sat, and there, she read, and no one would bother her until her mom came and retrieved spices from the shelves for dinner. In her school, there was the area near the dumpsters, around the corner of the building where the playground was. There, she would sit with her best friend, and sometimes they would walk further down to the gate where they watched the cars go by. Every place, every book, and every world felt just had those *things*, those little things that felt novel and pushed her to dream and keep dreaming.

She was comfortable in her mind, and she was lucky, because not only did her mind get her far, but she knew it would, and she could make use of it in the private school her host family paid for. Most kids never got the chance, or they never knew they had one, or, most likely, they were victim to both.

She was still poor — her mom was not paid in wage for her housework, but rather in board and her daughter's education. But Zahra didn't notice or mind. All she needed was books and walks. Uncle Ravi would buy her as many books as she wanted, because she started to read the books his sons were assigned in exchange for doing the homework assigned on them. He gave her a better deal, that she could read any book she wanted as long as she didn't touch the ones his sons read, because they needed to learn on their own. And her walks she took to and from school – though she couldn't go out, she would go in circles until she felt refreshed, up until it hit Asr in the spring and Maghrib in the winter. She was lucky, lucky because she lived in a safe place, lucky because she had space to dream, and lucky because she could love herself, and love her worlds without interference.

She didn't realize she was lucky until she left it. Her whole life, she had known herself, but in this country, she was lost. Her worlds were foreign now, her walks in New York felt rushed, or tired. When she read in her living room, she couldn't focus; a siren, argument, or a car blasting music would snap her out of any engrossment she obtained. Soon, she grew tired of her worlds; they weren't beautiful anymore, she couldn't see those little things anymore. New York had so many *things*, but they weren't delicate, they weren't subtle, and she struggled finding beauty in them. Her books hadn't changed, but they took a level of sensitivity, a sensitivity she lost in, from, or for New York City. Where was beauty now?

But she found beauty again. She found the small things, but they weren't in any worlds, they were in other people. People were their own worlds, but they were more remote, more elusive, and honestly more dangerous. But they were worlds, and Zahra came to love the worlds and the little things her husband and children embodied.

When Sana came along, her small things brought color to Zahra's life again. Her husband and Inzamam had their quirks, but they were grown, and they were men, and they couldn't give or receive such constant affection the way small and beautiful Sana could. They were unwilling to be observed or to be touched, and as with many men, if you looked at them in the eye for too long they would have to look away. For them, it was like looking at the sun. They would melt if exposed to love for too long.

It was in the park off Roosevelt Avenue where Sana said “mama” for the first time. Zain was at work, and Inzamam at school, but Zahra heard it—by God, did she hear it, it was like a revelation, a confirmation that Sana was real, that she was a miracle and that she was growing before her eyes—and after she heard it, she kept taking her to the park, as if every time Sana came to the park, she grew a little. In her, Zahra saw herself, exploring the worlds open to her. Their apartment was small, but the world was big, and it was through Sana’s eyes that Zahra got to know New York City, and through her eyes where she began to see the small things again amidst the chaos and noise.

All of a sudden, Zahra noticed the intricate and contrastive architecture of New York, she saw an urban beauty in the streets and subway system, and she found certain spots in the parks where she could catch a breeze of fresh air from the heavens. But most importantly, she began to see the tiny worlds people in New York City inhabited, right in front of her, out in the open, but somehow invisible to her until she really looked. When she was younger, she had found her worlds in places and things, and then her closest loved ones, but now there were worlds everywhere, a different one for each person of the thousands she passed by. New York was intimate and crowded enough, and the people busy and unconcerned enough, for her to glimpse into these worlds briefly and feel the small things in them pop out to her like flowers blooming so suddenly, then wilting and disappearing as quick as they came to.

These worlds were temporary, Zahra’s orbit colliding with them for split seconds, but they were beautiful, as beautiful as the worlds she frequented every day in Lahore, the worlds she’d experience daily in her household, and the worlds she’d spend hours reading and days writing about. The first few times she had caught them, and they’d vanish minutes later, she was left with an odd feeling she hadn’t known—a feeling of loss and irrelevance—but soon she learned to experience and observe without attachment. To be able to witness beauty so temporarily, to love so briefly but so often, was a challenge, especially to Zahra, who had grown in a place that taught her permanence (where she saw the same tens of people and couple spaces every day) and a culture that taught her the virtue of committing rarely but strongly (where the people in her life would always be with her, and likewise she’d be with them). But for baby Sana, it was second nature, where she could laugh with a stranger on the subway or be held by a family friend she didn’t know, and never once think to exchange numbers or make a momentary connection more than it was. When Zahra started to learn this, she came to understand what a dream it was to experience and explore without attachment or indifference, to be loving and open without pretense and to practice sovereignty without isolation or ennui. That was what New York City had done to her; more accurately, this was what her daughter taught her.
