---
layout:     post
title:      Feather
date:       2019-08-11 19:37:53
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    A story of trauma and dreams.
categories: stories
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - color
  - dreams
  - fiction
  - trauma
---
As I open my eyes, the silhouette of my room slowly comes into view. Dawn still hasn’t hit, and it's almost pitch black. The only light source is the hallway light my dad leaves on that seeps through the foot of the door. I’m lying on my right side, but I decide to roll onto my back to stare at the ceiling a bit. As I stare, my mind wanders, my eyes lose focus, and my sight fades to black again. I love that feeling. I drift away, and my mind forgets the difference between having eyes open and eyes closed. It forgets the difference between wake and sleep, between dreams and reality, between life and death.

My phone buzzes on my desk, indicating that it's 6 o'clock. I get out of my bed and turn on the light. It's still dark outside, but I can tell sunrise will be soon. I change quickly, putting on the same blue jeans I wear every day, the same white socks I wear every day, and a random shirt from my closet. This time, the shirt is bright orange and says "Santa Clara County Fair 2014" on it. I remember going with my mom then. I was only 9 then. My mom said dad was busy, but when we came back, he was just watching TV. I stare at my t-shirt in the mirror and almost start to feel sadness before I make it dissipate and turn towards my door. Thankfully, my dad's room is on the other side of the house, and the kitchen is right next to my room. I walk quietly to the kitchen and pull out some cereal from the cupboard.

On the way to the fridge, I grab the remote and turn on the TV, muted of course. As I get the milk, bowl, and spoon, I glance at the nature documentary rerun on TV. Dad must have left it on this channel last night.

It's almost 6:15 now. I switch to Cartoon Network and pour my cereal and milk while the commercials play. I eat briskly, but pace it along with the episode. Before I know it, it's 6:29, and the show finishes. I turn the TV off, sling my backpack around my shoulder, and head to the garage, where there's a side door I take to leave the house.

I walk out the side door, which places me right behind the garbage cans. I walk sidewalks between them and the fence onto the driveway. It's still pretty dark outside, but 6:30 won't get any brighter now that summer's begun.  The sunlight starts to spill over onto the sky, but I can't see the sun yet. My mom would probably say it's dangerous to walk by yourself with this little lighting, even just to school. But, she's not here anymore, so I trudge along.

Maybe dad would be happy if I got robbed, as long as there's insurance for that kind of thing. Besides, he's the reason I have to leave so early for school in the first place. If I'm in the house when he wakes up, I risk a good beating if he wakes up on the wrong side of bed. At least if I'm not there, he just drinks and trashes the house. Sometimes he sucks it up and goes to work. Or he cleans up. I'm not there to tell, obviously.

The walk is uneventful. There's a Chinese lady with a cart who walks the opposite direction as me every day. We do a little nod of acknowledgement to each other as we passed and go on our merry way. I do wonder what her story is, what would happen if I tried talking to her. I imagine the scenario in my head as I walk. She seems friendly enough, but maybe she wouldn't be in the mood to talk. Should I even assume she speaks English? Why does she leave her house at exactly 6:30am every day? Does she even have a house? I realize I think about this every day, yet my behavior doesn't change. I then arrive at the front of my school. I always forget how close it is, and how easily I lose myself in my thoughts while walking. The same thoughts, every day. The school bus doesn't even bother stopping by my neighborhood since all the kids just walk – not that I would take it if it did.

I check my watch, and it's 6:40. I've gotten pretty good at maintaining this schedule, probably due to the painful alternative. The administrators get in around 7 or 7:15, so I relax on the outside in the meantime. There's a faded wooden bench outside the gate facing the street, and I sit there, on the right side, waiting. Like clockwork, at 6:45, Traum sits down on the bench next to me, on the left side. He's wearing a vest over a v-neck, baggy jeans, and some Reeboks. I never notice where he comes from, and he manages to show up right when my mind starts drifting too far to pay close attention. This time, I lost focus looking at this blue stone on the grass in front of me. It shone a strong, smooth azure blue like I'd never seen before. It was sitting in the shade, but it felt like the sun was reflecting off of it and the color was channeling straight into my eyes.

"Hey." I say

"Hey." he responds.

You lose things to talk about when you spend every day with someone, and Traum and I are reserved as it is. But we get along even if we don't say much. I continue to sit there, looking at the stone a bit more, trying to understand where the light came from. My eyesight has gotten so bad that it seems like it was coming directly from the rock itself.

"Where does color come from?" I ask Traum.

"It comes from light itself. Light is like a wave and depending on the wavelength and frequency of the wave, your eyes interpret it as a certain color." He sounds like my science teacher. He seems to know everything, though I don't understand him all the time.

I don't really respond, or really understand, so I keep staring at this stone. Time passes inconspicuously again, and it's 7:15 now. Ms. Patel opens the gate, and we walk in. We make our way between the boring beige walls of the hallway to classroom 8.2. Class starts at 8, and there's 45 minutes, so I walk up to my desk, put my backpack on the floor, sit on my chair, and pull out my DS and start playing.

"You know, you should consider reading before school starts. You get in so early, you could probably get through a whole book a week." Ms. Caldstone says. She's sitting behind her also boring and beige desk. She's wearing a grey blazer of sorts over a white top, her hair tied back as always. She looks sort of different without glasses, but I imagine it's more convenient to wear contacts nowadays. "Have you even done your homework?"

"Yes, Ms. Caldstone." I say sheepishly. I haven't finished everything, but I do all my homework in math class anyway.

I go back to playing my DS. I'm playing the newest (but kinda old) Pokemon game, Pokemon Ultra Moon. I've almost reached the big fight with Necrozma, and I'm trying to get there before school starts.

Unfortunately, I make very little progress before the school bell rings at 7:55. I feel like I've only played for a few minutes, which I chalk up to video game immersion. Almost all at once, the rest of the class pours in. My desk is near the front, on the left side of the second of five rows with five desks each. Traum sits at the back, in the bottom left corner. People barely notice he's there, especially since he never talks. Even the teachers never ask him questions, or call his name for attendance.

Class goes by extremely slowly. I find myself resisting the urge to look at the clock, then giving up after 20 minutes, only to find out that just two minutes had passed. Somehow, I get through most of my morning classes: English, Math and Social Studies. The only thing left before lunch is art, my favorite subject this year. Part of the reason it's my favorite is because it's right before lunch, so it ends on a nice note. Another reason is because the teacher, Mr. Garcia, is so chill. He lets us do whatever we want as long as we present our progress to the class every other week. Two people present every day, at the beginning of class, for 5 minutes each, and the rest of class we do whatever we want.

Today, I decide to start painting something new, sparked by an urge to paint a burnt orange bridge on the outskirts of town. I only went there once, years ago, two weeks before mom died. We rode a canoe together on the river under the bridge. It was hard to get there, since there was only one makeshift dock on the side of the river, and it was only accessible from the ladder that went down one of the bridge's piers. People stopped going there, though. Apparently someone got hurt going down the ladder, and since then, the city remodeled the bridge and closed down all activities on and around the river. I wonder if anyone goes down the bridge's walkway just to see the river, even though you can't experience it. It was a beautiful river, and canoeing down it remains one of my fondest memories with mom.

I sit there quietly, painting this bridge, uncovering this itch I have. As always, when I paint, I feel entirely at peace, like the trials of my life are no more. I love painting because when I paint a new universe, it replaces the current one I am experiencing (apparently, two universes cannot exist simultaneously). I would lose myself in trying to understand and discover what this world is, how it feels, for what purpose it exists. Finishing almost feels unscrupulous, as I am immediately transported back to the realm of the disappointing real. While I always long for the feeling of excavating an unknown world, after painting, I manage to return to my world with a refreshed desire to explore and unearth the mysteries of this world as well. Our universe remains an insufferable creation, but it has one unique (even redeeming) quality compared to the rest: it continues to live, and it demands to be experienced.

No matter how hard I try, after finishing, I am never able to return to a universe I have created, to experience the sensation I had when creating it. It seems that the realm of dreams, of fantasy, of art, and the realm of reality, have been built to be separate, and mutually exclusive. Similarly, that sensation has been so absent from this universe that often in the redundancy of daily life, I find myself yearning to find it in this world. The dream realm is ethereal, but temporary; the real world mundane, but persistent. To this day, I have not felt true beauty in this world. I only feel it in worlds other than our own.

This is the first time I draw an object existing in this 'real' realm, this bridge and its surrounding area. Though I've drawn realistic environments before, they would still be fabricated to a point, like a generic landscape of rural America, or a busy city view of a street in Manhattan, where I've never been. Most of my paintings *seem* real, but they are fictional. This painting is real, but it *seems* fictional. The colors are off, almost inverted, the bridge emits a boring light blue, while the river and sky bleed a tainted, dark orange. There is nothing else in the painting besides the sky, bridge, and river, except a rippled circle of white on the river, directly under the railing of the bridge. I don't know what it means, or why it's there, but I felt compelled to paint it.

The rest of the day goes by quickly, thank God. Once I finish my painting, I immediately snap out of my dream, and the rest of the day becomes some kind of a simulation. Maybe I haven't returned from the dream entirely, but either way, at least it goes fast and not slow like this morning. I'm not complaining, but it is annoying that I have to go home soon.

The school bell rings at 3, signaling the end of what I consider the normal part of the day. Now, I have an hour and a half before I have to be home.

Traum and I decide to walk down the train tracks again. Sometimes, I miss the anticipation of danger we felt the first few times we walked on the tracks. But by now, we've walked here at least a thousand times – four times a week since mom died – and we have yet to see an actual train run. As we walk towards the train tracks, we witness the city get more and more rundown. Is there something about train tracks that make the surrounding area poorer? Or is it a coincidence?

"What do you think, Traum?"

"Maybe it has something to do with the accessibility of train tracks back when passenger trains still ran here. Richer people probably had cars, or didn't work at all, so they never found it useful to be close to the stations. Poor people probably needed it to get to work every day."

"Oh. Cool." I say, slightly understanding. "Wish I paid attention in history."

Traum and I walk down the tracks, strolling further from home each step we take. The surrounding area is not very lively. All I can see around me are abandoned houses, empty warehouses, and broken shacks. Soon enough, the sun starts to drift towards the land, as if it is tired after a long day, wishing to return to its rest under the heavy blanket of the Earth. As we walk further down, I notice more and more of the buildings are painted a faded light blue.

"You'd think, in an area like this, people wouldn't have painted their houses like this. Odd." Traum remarks.

As we continue down the tracks, it feels more and more like I've stepped into an alternate world. Traum and I have walked down these tracks before, but we've never seen any blue houses, nor has it been as quiet as it is now. Or, it's always been quiet here, but now, it's *still*. It feels like nothing around me is moving except for me and Traum, like everything in the world is stuck in time except for us. Oddly enough, I find this feeling encouraging, so I march onto the horizon, towards the dark, burnt orange light of the almost-setting sun. I march, and I keep marching.

Suddenly, I see the bottom of the sun hit the horizon, and I realize it must be getting late. Judging by our proximity to sunset, it must be well past 5, when my dad comes home. I've guaranteed a beating at this point; the last time I came home after he did my back pained for weeks, and the scars never left. I look to my right and left, and **all** of the buildings are faded light blue at this point. It's uncanny. Unsettling. I must be far from home.

I stop, and start to turn towards the opposite direction. Before I finish turning, I hear a sound, the first sound I've heard since stepping on these tracks today. It sounds like... steam of some sort.

The train cruises towards us at a surprisingly swift pace. Its hull shines a golden orange, while the machine releases silver steam with a metallic periwinkle tint. The train seems to shine bright, as if it is reflecting sunlight that has long since left the sky. But when I look closely, I see that the metal is dull and faded. It feels surreal and real all at once.

Still hypnotized by the mirage, I stand unwittingly on the tracks, as time (or just the train, I can't tell) slows down gradually. Each second, as the train inches forward, its proximity to me becomes more and more apparent, and my mind starts to fire warning signs. I can almost feel the synapses trying to jumpstart my mind into action, yet I remain still. The train is real, but I have this *intuition* that it will do nothing but pass through me. Like its material is not metal, but indiscriminate particles of light that came together to form this illusion of an orange-ish train, only to dissipate into nothingness soon thereafter. This image implants itself into my head, and as the train gets closer, the image becomes clearer, until it's all I can feel. The fantasticality of it all becomes a part of me.

I've felt pain. Every week, almost every other day, I feel pain. I feel the sting of my father's palm on my cheek, the dense throbbing of my blood vessels repelling the hard, cylindrical cardboard container, a container which would store the research posters my father used to present at his conferences, conferences which would distract my father for weeks, weeks which would cede me and my mother a peaceful purgatory until he returned.

But the bruises and blood left on the skin are incomparable to the scars left on the heart. I've learned, the pain of abuse is not physical; it is emotional. It stings not at the skin, but deeper, in the soul. Physical pain comes from the outside and stops at the skin, at your blood. Emotional pain originates from your heart and spreads outward to your soul, mind, and body. It engulfs you.

"Snap out of it!" Traum pulls me from the train track a second before the train takes my place, despite my readiness, my enthusiasm to be swallowed up in its image.

I lay awake in bed, staring at the ceiling. I focus on a dark corner where my eyes can lose focus and the room can go black. The moonlight reaches into my room, supplying a moonlight so subtle that my room glows with a dark sapphire. I slowly turn on my right side, eyeing the nightlight under my desk. It's inefficiently placed, but it allows me to see the underside of my desk and the papers piled on the bottom shelf I rest my foot on. On the top of the pile is a poster my mom and I made a few years ago, titled "My Family Tree". It has a white background a large tree drawn on it, the trunk colored blue and the leaves orange. I can't see each branch of the tree from here, but my mom's side of the family is noticeably larger and more detailed than my father's. Then, the nightlight fizzles out, and the papers fade into darkness.

I turn to lie on my back again, my eyes returning to my favorite ceiling corner. I flinch – not due to the pain, but in response to this spot of orange emerging in the vertex of the ceiling corner, insignificant but distinct amongst the dark sapphire blue light. "Traum?" I call out. "Mother?" There is no response. Suddenly, an encompassing warmth returns to me. I embrace it, immersing myself in a security and trust I'd lost so long ago that I've forgotten I ever had it. Hours go by, and the blue ceiling falls out of focus, my mind moving lethargically, like every thought disturbs its ever deepening slumber. The speck of orange expands, reluctantly at first, like a kitten observing a new toy, or a widow falling in love. But I open to it, and it grows, sprawling across the ceiling like the time-lapse of a tree, or a disease. Slowly, slowly, the orange warmth takes me over, illuminating my blurry, indistinguishable room, radiating its love into my eyes, my skull, my lungs. The light turns so strong that it blinds my eyes, but I do not blink – I let it swallow me as I become, my emptiness filled with a blazing purpose. The orange brightens into apricot, yellow, cream, until a white sunlight is all I see.

Time passes like a feather floating, falling to the ground, and so do I. I'm here now, where I want to be. And you are here with me, mother. You are here with me.

{::comment}
[This story was supposed to go on to the next day into the climax, but I ended it here, partly due to the fact that I'd never finish it (the conclusive paragraph was written 6 months after the rest of the piece), partly due to an intuition that it would be better ending the themes ambiguously rather than explicitly. Here is the rest, after the original conclusion where the protagonist thinks of what happened that night after he got home:]

I arrived very late, after 6pm, to find my dad staring at an uneaten plate of salmon and garlic bread. Across him was an identical plate with a glass of apple juice next to it. He wore a facial expression I couldn't decipher. It almost came off as a look of concern.

"Hey dad."

He sprung up and his facial expression mutated into rage (now that's something I could recognize).

"Where the hell were you? I was.. You know that's unacceptable. It's irresponsible and unmanly to be truant."

His voice rang in my ears. I didn't respond. I mean, I knew what was going to happen.

I didn't eat dinner that night. He beat me with a fury I hadn't felt, physically or emotionally, since mom left. Most times, it's like he beats me out of boredom, or like it's a routine he abides by. Tonight was different.

As I lay on my back and endured his swings of rage, my mind wandered back to the train. Its dull, orange hull, the blue abandoned houses in the background.. The image consumed my mind. I dreamt of standing in its wake, and as it makes contact, absorbing it into myself. Diffusion. Like my chest opens up and it funnels itself into my soul. I dreamt of the emptiness in me being fulfilled with urgency. I dreamt of romance, of rancor, of nirvana and of death.

My phone vibrates again. It's 6am, but I'm not asleep. Or at least I feel no more conscious than I did before my alarm rang. I'm still staring at that corner, my mind moving even slower now. I don't remember falling asleep that night. All I remember is staring at the ceiling as the dark blue moonlight of my room evolved into a bright orange sunlight. I could have been asleep, but I don't feel like I ever woke up.

It's just another day.

As much as I want to keep staring, I only allow myself another 10 minutes before I get up. I pick the County Fair shirt out of the laundry and wear it with my everyday blue jeans. Skipping breakfast, I leave straight for school. It's so foggy today, the sky filled with clouds. I can't tell where the sun is, or if it even came out yet. The streets feel empty and abandoned, a concrete desert. I don't see the old lady on my way to school, and no one else is on the sidewalk. Normally, a car would drive by occasionally. Today, there was nothing. I arrive at 6:20 to find Traum waiting there already, staring at the ground on our bench.

I sit beside him.

"You sulking?"

He doesn't take his eyes off the ground. I follow his eyes to where he's looking at and I see a black stone. I know, somehow, it's the same stone as yesterday. The essence of the object is the same. It's still projecting light somehow, despite the weather. Did someone paint it?

I lean forward to pick it up.

"Don't do that." Traum commands.

I stop. I lose the urge to touch the stone, and lean back into my seat.

At 7:15, a lady I don't recognize walks up to the gate, which I assume she's going to open. She's wearing a black collared blouse which matches her black skirt and black heels. What stands out is her hair—it radiates a bright orange comparable only to the reddish freckles on her pale face. Traum and I watch curiously as she attempts to open the gate, trying out one of maybe 10 keys on her key chain at a time. She inserts the keys with a distinct poise, a patience I've never seen a public school teacher wield before. After the 4th key doesn't go through, Traum turns and mentions to her, in a soft, but confident voice, "It's the one with the green rubber glued onto the head."

"Thank you," she says, eyes never leaving the keychain, not even to acknowledge him.

Traum and I get up slowly. We walk through the opened gate, find our classroom, and sit in our respective seats. The door was unlocked, but Ms. Caldstone is nowhere to be found. Feeling wary, I pull out my DS and start to play.

Around 7:50, the other students begin to trickle into the classroom. Ms. Caldstone still isn't there. I almost feel guilty playing my DS without her lecturing me to study or read. I miss her still, vigilant presence in the room on this cloudy morning.

At 8:00, right as the bell rings, the door creaks open to reveal the same lady in black. She stands in the doorway for a half second before stepping into the room, like she was surveying the room to make sure it was safe before entering. Her gait reminds me of when I enter a room and forget why I came—caution with a bit of confusion.

"Ms. Caldstone is unable to come to work today. I will be replacing her."

Motivated primarily by curiosity, I raise my hand.

"What is it?" she asks, her head cocking slightly to her right like a bird would. Come to think of it, she does resemble a bird in many ways. Her nose is long and pointy, eyes sharp with small pupils. Since she's wearing all black, the first image that comes to mind is that of a crow. A very peculiar, alert crow. Waiting for the right moment to pick her prey.

"Is Ms. Patel gone as well? She normally opens the gates in the morning."

"Yes. She is. The teachers are organizing what is called a strike."

I look back towards Traum, and whisper, "What is a strike?" in the lightest sound I could produce.

"A strike is when teachers stop teaching out of their selfish desire to get more money out of the administrators. Now, no more questions. Pull out your books. We'll be free reading this whole period. Make as much progress as you can.

I bend and reach into my bag to pull out my book. All the time I was wondering how the teacher managed to hear me. I wasn't very sneaky given that I had to look backwards to face Traum, but there's no way she heard me. Sound definitely does not travel that way.

[Outline:]
-Wake up at dawn to leave house before 7am to get to school before dad wakes up (abusive dad)
-While waiting for class at 8am, hang out with "friend" (don't really talk)
-He sits at back of class in corner
-Draw bridge
-Feel urge to draw something at the bottom of the bridge, maybe some colors, or my mom, idk
--Spot of black: Happens on accident? Or I don't notice? Or I just do it unconsciously?
-After school, do something with Traum, lose track of time, get home late
-Come back by 5pm to eat dinner
-Have fight with dad

Next day
-Similar routine, but very tired this day
-Try to focus when Traum comes, lose sense of time, can't decipher my watch, feel delirious. He sits down and then I check watch and now I can read it (6:45)
-Can't say anything either, he mumbles a bit but I don't understand and I feel too tired to ask
-What was he even wearing tomorrow? Or any day? Everything is a blur
-...
-He convinces me to run away (?)
-Death (?) (screaming out "mom" while falling? looking towards sky, falling towards river, they seem dark orange)
-orange turns to white, blue turns to black
-Traum a ghost of mom?
--Or maybe Traum just a dark second personality that came after mom left

Themes
-Color. Abnormal things are bright, everything else is beige or boring
-Time. Time passes oddly, most of the time he loses track of it

Notes
-Should it be sunny the first day? Need a difference in weather? But then how does the rock reflecting light factor in
{:/comment}
