---
layout:     post
title:      TO FALL
date:       2019-07-20 22:46:47
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    I want it all.
categories: poetry
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - a
  - z
---
<br>
she sits on a bench

a park wide and unstretched

benches all around, but only hers is true

the rest are illusion, she sits still and unmoved

<br>
she is old, maybe 60

her husband may have died

her family, her country

are they gone or by her side?

<br>
either, she is not accompanied

either or, she sits alone

the park is grey, opaque, phantasmic

except her, of course, in state

<br>
years and years behind her

how many in front, in sight?

to be old, to be still, to break the wheel

to graduate all from the world revealed

<br>
she is a sage, she is not there

but more real than this world itself

i wish to meet and be her

but i am not grounded yet

<br>
i am young, in flux

my image torn and bled

i cannot Be inside this world

my mind still in my head

<br>
to be, to Be, to ground, to see

to merge with man, water, and trees

to strive, no, die, to live outside time

why fly when 道 is weak?

<br>
to live in age is to ground oneself

to join with root, not twig

all our spooks ephemeral, petulant

abstractions are for the self centered, the needy, the clingy, the thinkers, the doers, the fighters, the climbers, the young, the aging, the temporary, the exhausted, the nevermore, the fleeting, the strong ones to be weakened

<br>
die and Die, be nothing, why? to live forever grand

but quiet, slight, we do not fight

we merge with earth again

<br>
my life, my self, i need no more

Nothing is betrothed

i strive to die, to fly in death

my wishes underground

<br>
Fall! To Fall! I Want It All!

To Throw It Into Dust.

We all will melt; Perish! Debt! Yes, Bring Me Home Again!

<br>
ive met a dragon

her golden / bench bright red

take me to her when im ready

to grow old i must find death
