---
layout:     post
title:      A self-indulgent essay of sorts — on fragility and suffering
date:       2020-01-14 12:20:29
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    Learning to be fragile is learning how to heal.
categories: life
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - fragility
  - growth
  - healing
  - suffering
---
There is a certain beauty in aimlessness, where you are so lost that you know you could end up anywhere, you could become anyone or find yourself doing something you'd never imagine. Most of the time, though, this optimism leads to disappointment — life gives us the same mundaneness it always has, and we learn that not much changes without hard work and intention.

But in this tension, something else comes about, where we want something so bad, we are so depressed or heartbroken or just bored, that our life becomes delicate, and at some point, in the most average setting, we find an utter beauty that moves us in the most memorable and distinct way. Such fragility is only available when we are hurting, or transforming, and when we want it (fragility is dangerous, and fairly hard to manage), and when we acquire it, we become so sensitive in the best of ways — a flower or a sunset can bring us to tears or make our day, a certain tiny social experience can fill us with love and sentimentality, one walk alone can bring such private, simple, and groundbreaking epiphanies. It seems that in a certain way, the best way to live life is to lower your standards so low such that the smallest thing can blow your mind, to find yourself so utterly disappointed with life until something mundane can touch you and you are thrown for a loop — it isn't a sustainable way of living, one may argue, but it truly is a beautiful one, and we only gain access to it when we are hurting or feel wronged or absolutely confused.

I found myself in this kind of haze months after a particularly challenging and prolonged breakup (the kind where you are back in love for one week and negotiating space the next, for months and months on end), in a new city where I had no friends, adopting a new, stressful work lifestyle I had never known and never really wanted. During this time, I would often go to coffee shops—I was so lonely that even just working with people around me felt like a social life—and just work, or do logistics, or write or read. One coffee shop I went to regularly (Birch Coffee on Park Avenue, I believe) had these little stands, conversation starters that broadcasted that you were willing to talk to a stranger. It displayed a question they could ask you, and I put it, every day, next to me, in the hopes that maybe someone would take an interest in talking to me.

No one did. It was my favorite coffee shop, and I was there God knows how many times, and not once did someone tap me on the shoulder or make eye contact with me with intent. But just putting the card next to me as I worked made me so excited, and so jittery for myself — who could I meet today, would we become friends maybe, best friends or maybe lovers, or would we never speak again? Just by putting a piece of metal on my table, I felt like the most spontaneous person ever, and I was enamored with the possibilities life could bring, the possibilities it had to bring because my life was a barren country of nostalgia, disappointment, depression and heartbreak. And then I'd come out of the coffee shop, generally to eat dinner, and it would be night time, and Manhattan at night became something truly meaningful to me during that time where I desperately needed beauty in my life. I'd look like a tourist, every night snapping pictures of the city and standing around aimlessly, watching people go places and cars honk at each other. I don't know what it was, but it would blow my mind every single time, and I'd find myself listening to music, on the verge of tears, walking down or up fifth avenue, on a weekly or daily basis, like it was some ritual. Even if I wasn't going anywhere, I walked with such conviction and with the edgiest scowl on my face, like I was making a change, and I would get out of this depression, and I would find love and happiness again, even if I was no closer to it that day than I was the day before.

This may be why Manhattan is special to me—even now, its sights can bring me to tears, or make me reflect so intensely, maybe out of association or respect for my then self—in a certain way, I am in the same spot I was at that time (it was only a year ago), with not much to show for myself except some writings I finished (a novel and some essays), a couple of friends I made (albeit distant friends you only see every few weeks), still single and still lonely, still a little hurt by the world and its unapologetic rotations and chaos, still wishing, in a way, that I was back in college again, in love and around loved ones, though by now the nostalgia is a lot more accepting and familiar, and I know there is no going back, and maybe I wouldn't even if I could. Maybe I wouldn't, because this time in my life feels special, even if I'm the one making it feel special (clearly no one else is, I realized it's just me now, and only I am to blame for myself, but it's also encouraging to know that I am in control and these feelings are mine and maybe God's doing). I am sure I will look back at it with fondness and profound respect for what I had to go through, at least I hope I will, because the last two years have not been kind to me and I am still not mature enough to accept my hurting without needing it to have meaning or some eventual closure. In any case, it's my decision to make these years represent something special to me, and so they will, even if they are some of the most uneventful and solitudinous times I've ever had the privilege of experiencing.

In a way, I know that once life picks up again (I tell myself it will get better, and to be fair it can either get better or stay the same, so I might as well believe the former), I will miss the fragility this time in my life has brought, and I will find myself searching for it again. I'll most likely take those walks down fifth avenue for the rest of my life (even if I am not in New York, I will find a way to emulate that mood), though when my life is busier and more filled with happiness, maybe it won't be daily but weekly, and then once I have kids maybe it will be monthly or yearly. Regardless, I will find a way to tap into the energy I feel now, and I hope I'll always have access to it, and that I'll never forget what it means to be truly fragile and sensitive, entirely vulnerable to the world, when your wounds are still fresh and pulsing, even if I am, at the end of the day, becoming too attached to suffering in the hopes that it has meaning. I hope it isn't just that, but something tells me it isn't, that suffering doesn't have intrinsic meaning, but it can maybe bring you to a unique, remote place within yourself where you can reconstruct that meaning for yourself, and that you should never wish for suffering, but it has to come every so often just so you can return to that place. I'm imagining a mountaintop somewhere, where it snowed that morning and the air is still fresh with evaporated ice, and no one knows you're there, but you do, even if you're really just in your room listening to sad music or on a bench somewhere wishing you had what that couple across from you does as they disgust you with their cuddles and kisses and whispers. That place is special, and maybe the process of life is learning how to bring ourselves there without being brought there, to be sensitive and ever-changing without needing to suffer, to be inspired and profound without needing to be at rock bottom, to be soft and blindly optimistic—wanting and demanding more—even when life can't or shouldn't get any better.

And I find myself, as I'm writing this, hoping I can move forward in my life while still maintaining this relationship to myself—I get attached to things easily, and my fear of loss applies to this mood too—and also finding a certain respect for myself for having that remote mountaintop, finding it even though no one told me to find it. And some would say I'm just dissociative and depressed and shouldn't be so sentimental about it, well whatever, I will be, and I love this, and I love myself, even and especially the self that comes out in times of hardship, and I hope this self maintains itself and doesn't disappear with the hardship, and in a sense, fuck it, I hope hardship never entirely leaves my life, and that I am always pushing myself to find more, and in a sense that I’m always mildly dissatisfied with the world or my life and how it's gone and how it is; even if I am the happiest man on Earth, I want to be one who still feels vulnerable, who can be moved, even and especially negatively, by the world and its utter bullshit. Maybe happiness and pain are parallel, maybe I can increase my happiness without feeling less pain, or maybe I can't, and I will find goodness and leave behind all of this once I no longer need it to have meaning, in which case I guess I am happy for myself too. Whether I find a way to feel fragile and upset every so often, or I leave it entirely, I imagine both are satisfactory futures (one satisfying my sentimental and principled self, the other being one where I am happy enough to let go of him), and so there is no choice but to move on, because God forbid the only negative future is the one in which I don't change at all, and that includes one where, years later, I am still depressed and writing these self-indulgent essays; yes, I hope I have better things to do then, or at least better things to write, though I guess what I am saying is writing this feels nice because it is self-indulgent, and I truly need no one but myself these days, and that is nice and great, even if it leads to depression every month or two.

I don't know how to end this essay, as you can tell by my repeating of the thesis (I have grown to like this fragile place in my life, and I am attached to it, though it may not be healthy to be attached to suffering, though I am still attached to it, though maybe I can be fragile without suffering, or maybe I can't), but I guess if you are reading this, know that you should be proud of your fragility, and that you should, in a way, be grateful life brought you where it did. And if you aren't fragile, then I feel bad for you, because either you have had too comfortable a life without needing to think twice, or you don't believe in being so, and I truly believe that learning to be fragile is the same as learning how to heal, and learning how to heal is the same as learning how to live. All the while, we should never attach ourselves to suffering, and I hope that we can continue to change, even if that changes our relationship with fragility. And I know, if things aren't good for you now (they certainly aren't for me), that things will get better, it is a simple fact I guess, and you should both be excited for that time, but also not too impatient, because what you're going through right now has its own value and beauty, and maybe you should pay attention to that too, and explore what it has to offer before it leaves your life in favor of happiness, whatever that word is or however snobbish it has to be to assume it is better than what we have now. Though hopefully it is, truly, hopefully, we are in a better place tomorrow than we are today, because God knows I can't tell right now.
