---
layout:     post
title:      ghost
date:       2021-05-08 20:25:00
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    A story about a girl and a boy.
categories: stories
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - childhood
  - independence
  - intimacy
  - love
---
Sama first came into contact with her ghost when she was six years old. She found it on a Wednesday afternoon, when both of her parents were at work and she was left to make hot dogs in the kitchen alone.

The hot dogs she was cooking were expired, but she didn’t know that (she would not have been cooking the hot dogs if she did). Her mother likely knew it, but she had to put her paycheck into fixing the alternator for the family car. Sama didn’t know what an alternator was. She didn’t know what a paycheck was either.

The kitchen had what the realtor called a “state of the art” gas stove. The apartment itself was part of a humble multiplex with stairs in the middle. Their living room was small, but large enough for a 32-inch T.V., a rug for Sama to drive her trains and cars on, and a saggy caramel couch that sat against the wall and the bar that separated the kitchen and the living room. When Sama was four, she was playing on that couch, and when she stood up, her head hit the counter protruding from the kitchen bar and she cried for at least twenty minutes. “I told you we can’t put the couch there,” her mother said to her father as she rubbed her head with ice in a plastic bag. “Where else would we even put it?” her father said back. They kept the couch there, Sama having learned to avoid the seat next to the counter.

Sama had a long day at school, as she had for most of first grade. She felt unwelcome in her class, both due to the attitude of her homeroom teacher, Mrs. Kowalski, as well as her precarious relationship with the other kids in her grade. She was assigned a desk in an awkward part of the classroom, hidden partly behind an easel under a poster of the alphabet that she spent most of class time staring at, thinking of what she would eat when she got home that day. Mrs. Kowalski didn’t call on her much, though Sama wasn’t sure if this was intentional or if she was just forgotten about.

So Sama was excited when she started cooking the hot dogs that afternoon, that she pouted when the first burner didn’t ignite. She tried another, and that one worked, but the first one kept clicking stubbornly. Sama was so excited as the second burner inflated into flames that it threw her into joviality—as she placed the hot dogs in the pot, she started to dance to the clicking. *I’m a nice girl*, Sama thought, after letting the burner continue to click. *I’m nice to the kitchen.*

Sama’s favorite part of making hot dogs was watching the water boil out from the pot. After taking out the hot dogs, she covered the pot with a cover that had a hole in it, and she watched the water bubbles emerge and then drift towards the top. Then she took her hot dogs, grabbed some ketchup and a fork, and sat on the couch.

Sama only got through one hot dog when the pot started to screech. She put her plate on the counter and scuttled to the pot just in time to see the cover start to wiggle and shake. It looked like it was dancing to the clicking too. Sama watched the kitchen dance and sing until the steam started to escape from the top. The steam made the screeching even louder, to the point where it, combined with the clicking, started to hurt her ears.

Sama glared at the steam. She didn’t know whether to trust it or not. It made a little shape that Sama thought looked like a baby’s hand. It grew a tiny little thumb underneath, pointing downward. Sama took this to mean that it didn’t appreciate the dancing of the pot cover either. It probably didn’t like the music, or it must have known that Sama was a better dancer. The cover wasn’t even dancing on beat.

Sama decided to ally with the little cloud that came from her pot. She turned both stoves off, and the clicking, screeching, and dancing stopped. Sama took a deep breath and thanked the cloud, which was now rising into the ceiling. *It’s a ghost,* she thought to herself.

“Bye bye, ghost,” she whispered, and she walked back to the couch to finish her hot dogs.

Sama told her mom about the ghost and the clicking when she came home, and her mother, listening to her daughter as she looked through the mail from that day, turned to her and said, “You’re lucky your ghost told you to shut off the stove. Next time, turn off the stove when you’re done, okay? It’s dangerous and you shouldn’t play with those things. The ghost doesn’t want you to do those things.” That seemed to make sense to Sama. She trusted her ghost, after all. She didn’t know that one spark would have set their whole apartment on fire. She didn’t have to know.

<br>
#

Sama found her ghost again years later, when she was well into the sixth grade. The sixth grade was a breakthrough year for Sama—she had experienced a growth spurt unparalleled by either the boys or the girls in her class. Her body began to grow in odd shapes; she didn’t very much like these shapes, but the boys and girls in the class seemed to take notice of it, so she took these changes in stride and adjusted her behavior to reflect her newfound social standing. Her mother warned her about some of her body’s changes, but both of her parents only referred to it nebulously, and anytime Sama asked them about it when they ate dinner on the living room floor, her father would leave the room to get some napkins or refill the pitcher of water.

Sama was cordial with most people, and she had one closer friend whose name was Archana—though they only became friends because they lived near each other and sat on the same row on the bus. There was one boy, though, to whom Sama felt affection she felt for no one else. His name was Arjun, and he was a remarkably plain young boy, with short layered hair that he combed to the side and large, wide canine teeth that dominated his mouth anytime he smiled. Sama liked him, she liked him a lot, to the point that she asked her mother to show her how to style her hair and paint her nails, in the hopes that he would notice.

Arjun didn’t much notice all the things Sama did to attract him to her, but he did notice her increasing popularity among the class, and that drew him to act interested enough in her to keep receiving her attention. Soon enough, the boys and girls in the class started to see him as an object of desire, or at the very least, a threat.

When Arjun had any free time in class, he would walk over to Sama’s desk and look at her. He waited silently for Sama to say something—she, being obsessed with him, always did.

“I think your pencil is nice,” Sama said. She watched Arjun look down at his number 2 pencil. “Do you bite it?”

“No, I think that’s nasty,” Arjun said. He eyed Sama with a wisp of defamiliarity, as if he was deducing something about her.

Sama looked around to make sure no one was eavesdropping. Most had noticed but no one dared to eavesdrop or watch them directly. “Are you my boyfriend?” Sama whispered.

Arjun stood there for a second, looking dumb. “Yes,” he said. He smiled to himself, then smiled to Sama, and walked back to his desk.

<br>
Sama’s ghost appeared on a cloudy day in early February. Panic! at the Disco had just released their single “Nine in the Afternoon”, which, among other things, triggered a wave of popularity for the band throughout the school. Sama’s class in particular seemed to rediscover their earlier songs, namely “Lying Is the Most Fun a Girl Can Have Without Taking Her Clothes Off”, which had conjoined with the typical preteen texture of sexuality, as bodies and desire occupied each sixth grader’s undeveloped prefrontal cortex. One of the popular girls, Victoria, had begun to sing and hum it in class—which, as she had intended, impressed the others that she knew their earlier songs, and was provocative, even sexy too. Then everyone started to hum it from time to time and it became an anthem for that class in those few months.

Sama was watching the clouds outside when Victoria approached her. It was the recess after lunch, and Sama had gone with Archana to the playground. Archana sat on one of the benches while Sama wandered towards one of the trees next to it. The clouds that day were fluffy, and Sama wondered how they would feel if she could touch them. She imagined they felt like cotton. One cloud in particular caught her eye—it was shaped like a Hamburger Helper, Sama thought—and she kept her eye on it as it moved and morphed across the sky.

The boys had just finished their football game. Sama noticed, as Victoria walked towards her, that Arjun was resting on one of the swings, watching both of them. She felt like something was wrong.

“I like your hair, Sama,” Victoria said. Sama didn’t trust her. They never spoke, and the one time they were partnered up in class, Victoria let Sama do the work while she talked to her friend at the table behind them.

“Thanks.” Sama surveyed Victoria. She was dressed better than Sama, wearing a white PINK hoodie, tight black jeans, and converse. Sama had on a grey jacket her mother gave her and blue jeans she got from Goodwill. Sama couldn’t tell if Victoria was wearing makeup or not, but her skin was lighter than Sama’s and her eyebrows were certainly better shaped.

Victoria looked around, stopping to smile at Arjun, then stepped closer to Sama until they were at eye level. She spoke with a delicate tone, as if she were telling Sama a secret that no one else was supposed to hear.

“How’s your boyfriend?” she asked.

“What do you want?”

“I’m just asking.” Victoria smiled a mischievous, guiltless smile.

“That’s none of your business.”

“I see you and Arjun talking always during recess.”

Sama blushed and peeked at Arjun, who was still sitting on the swing. His face looked blank, content; she couldn’t tell if he was paying attention or just looking in their general direction. “What do you want?”

“Do you think you deserve him?”

Sama felt a drop of water touch the back of her hand. She looked up at the sky. The hamburger helper cloud had come closer. The wind started to blow, throwing some of her hair into her eyes. The playground was overcast in a grey shadow and Sama hoped recess would end.

“Look at me when I’m talking to you,” Victoria said. “So rude.”

Victoria took a step closer. Sama took a step back. She looked towards the bench for Archana, but she wasn’t there. Where could she have gone?

“I bet he likes your hair,” Victoria said, and with her next step she reached for Sama’s hair. Sama jumped back, but her back hit the tree, and she almost tripped and fell. Victoria laughed. “I’m just looking!” she sneered.

Victoria started caressing Sama’s hair. Sama knew if she tried to jump back, Victoria might grab her hair and pull her back. Sama looked past Victoria’s shoulder towards Arjun. He looked indifferent. Other kids from the playground gathered nearby like hounds sniffing blood. Sama wanted to cry.

“Stop,” Sama whispered.

“Why don’t you call for Arjun, Sama? He’ll save you, won’t he?”

Sama felt another drop on her hand. The wind was blowing harder; Sama heard it whistle. A raindrop landed on Victoria’s arm and she flinched, looked up, then fixed her expression back on Sama.

“Why don’t you call your boyfriend, huh?” She started to tug at Sama’s hair gently.

“Stop it.”

“Call him.”

“Stop!” Sama shouted, and at once the clouds called forth waves and waves of rain. Victoria let go of Sama’s hair to cover her face. A flurry of whistles joined the sound of the rain. School staff ran onto the asphalt, motioning the students to go inside.

Before following the other kids inside, Sama turned to look at the sky. The hamburger helper cloud was watching over her, and it had brought its friends too. It smiled at her.

One of the teachers yelled Sama’s name for her to get inside.

“Thank you, ghost,” Sama said. Then she ran back to school.

<br>
After that incident, Sama started to see her ghost everywhere. Anytime she had to make a decision, she looked around for some kind of cloud, smoke, even a sheet of white paper. Once she found something, she would ask herself if it was her ghost, and if it was, she knew it had appeared to protect her, and she would avoid whatever she was faced with. She used this technique at the cafeteria when choosing whether to eat something, in her room when deciding whether to do homework or not—above all, she used it when meeting someone new.

The ghost appeared at school from time to time, but it didn’t have to intervene, because Sama was avoiding future confrontations with Victoria. Enough people saw the incident at recess that they assumed Victoria had taken back her social standing in the class. Victoria did her best to further this impression by poking fun at Sama to assert her dominance over her. Sama submitted to Victoria, and she soon faded into irrelevance again.

Sama would not have minded this—she was scared of confrontation anyway—except that Arjun started to talk to Victoria too. The two of them had a mutual partnership going for the rest of the sixth grade, which confirmed to everyone that they were the two most sought after kids in the class. But once the seventh grade rolled around, Victoria stopped having a need for Arjun, and she dumped him and left Sama alone too.

Arjun became irrelevant, which at first made Sama happy—she had made him popular in the first place—but soon she felt a silent pity for Arjun as she did for herself, watching him in the classroom scowl at his worksheets or stare out the window at the clouds.

Sama wondered if he had a ghost too, or if he could communicate with hers, though she soon concluded that he had no such ability because communicating with a ghost took awareness and sensitivity, and Arjun was as oblivious as a sack of bricks.

<br>
Throughout the seventh grade, Sama’s pity for Arjun grew into empathy. This mutual understanding must have been strong enough to emanate into the classroom, because Arjun picked up on it and decided to approach her that December.

“Hey,” Arjun said. His manner was tentative—he knew he had done Sama wrong by getting with Victoria the past year—but there was a hint of hopefulness in his voice that made Sama want to smile. Sama noted that his hair looked longer and his cheekbones had protruded a little bit—she wondered if Victoria would have noticed these changes, how she must have treated him when they were together.

Sama looked around to make sure no one was whispering about them, but everyone was working; Victoria glanced at them but went back to her worksheet without even making a face. Sama spoke softly. “Hey Arjun.”

“Do you have an eraser?” Arjun looked down at his hands and Sama saw a pencil wedged between his fingers. The pencil’s eraser was used even past the metal cap, and Sama could imagine the silver marks he must have had on his papers.

Sama reached into her pencil case and took out her pink eraser. She knew other girls in the class had erasers, but he had come up to her—this amused Sama, though she did her best to hide her satisfaction.

“Thanks,” Arjun said. He never had much to say.

“You’re welcome.”

Instead of going back to his desk, Arjun lingered for a while. Sama worried that someone would think something was going on. The sound of pencils scratching on paper and chairs dragging against the floor became louder with every second that he stood there. She didn’t know what to do.

Arjun stared at her. She matched his eye contact. She considered saying something, then remembered her ghost. She thought of how the ghost had protected her but Arjun hadn’t. Maybe the ghost was protecting her not only from Victoria but from Arjun as well. She couldn’t tell what made Arjun try to reconcile things now. What could he stand to gain from her now? What could she stand to lose?

Sama looked at Arjun for a few seconds, as if to communicate to him all these thoughts, then went back to her worksheet without dismissing him at all. Arjun seemed to understand this, disappointed as he was, and he walked back to his desk without a word.

<br>
#

Two years later, Sama and Arjun found each other again, one month into the ninth grade. Sama had made a high school friend already, her name was Esmeralda, and they met after being assigned lockers next to each other. The two of them didn’t spend much time together, but they talked every morning, and Sama looked forward to seeing her. Just having someone to spend each morning with was enough for Sama—enough to make her look towards high school with hope—and it was enough for Esmeralda, too, to invite her to sit with her friends at lunch one day.

This was Sama’s first time eating in the cafeteria, since she normally spent lunch outside, where she could watch the field and the sky while eating alone. She followed Esmeralda from near the library where they agreed to meet, into an auditorium-turned-cafeteria so noisy it made her dizzy and scared. But Esmeralda urged her along, smiling—her cheeks were fluffy like the clouds, Sama thought—and she walked slowly to the table, looking around at all the people and posters she hadn’t seen since orientation.

Sama sat down at the table and saw him. Esmeralda introduced Sama to her friends, but Sama looked past them two rows down, at the brown boy with the layered hair who might not have noticed her back.

“Sama, this is Luisa,” Esmeralda said.

Sama kept staring past them. The table didn’t know what to do. One of the girls turned to look in the same direction.

Luisa squirmed and gave a sympathetic smile. “It’s nice to meet you, Sama.”

Sama worked her eyes back onto Luisa and the girls. “Hey. Hey, it’s nice to meet you all too.”

The table sat in silence, unsure whether Esmeralda was going to introduce the rest. After a few seconds, two girls at the edge of the group started talking about a class they shared, and the table jump-started into conversation. Sama looked towards Arjun again, then almost fell off her chair. He was looking back. Did he recognize her? Or was he just confused as to why this girl was staring at her? Sama pulled her shirt down so the wrinkles wouldn’t show, then pursed her lips in and licked them. She looked down at the lunch in front of her, and pretending not to have recognized Arjun, joined in on the conversation that her new friends were having.

Sama glanced in Arjun’s direction from time to time but he didn’t match her eye contact again. She was spaced out for the rest of the lunch, which was obvious to everyone except for her. Eventually, the lunch bell rang, and accompanying the sound of talking came the noise of students packing up and leaving.

The bell didn’t faze Sama. As everyone left, conversing among themselves, she let herself linger, like Arjun did at her table in middle school, pretending to look for something in her bag, wondering if he would come up to her.

He did. She noticed that he walked differently now, and for a second she wondered if she was mistaken in thinking he was Arjun. Maybe he was a different person—the way he grasped the straps hanging from his backpack, the expression on his face that looked spacey but not empty anymore, his Jordans and cool blue jeans; all of a sudden Sama became conscious of what she wore to school that day, the clothes she grabbed out of her closet when trying to make the bus. Goodwill jeans again? And her shirt was still wrinkly.

When Arjun sat down across from her, she knew it was him, though she couldn’t tell what gave him away. She wondered if anyone knew him better than she did, if anyone had since observed her as she would. Was it his eyes? She looked into them and noticed something she hadn’t seen before—a glint, and was that new or had it always been there? What was in his eyes? Would she ever come close enough to them to know?

“Hey, Sama.”

Sama jumped. He did recognize her. “Oh, so you did recognize me.”

“Of course. I saw you walk in. You’re wearing the same jeans you used to wear in middle school.”

Sama blushed. She wanted to throw up.

“So how are you doing?” Arjun asked. “I see you’ve made friends already.”

“You did too, I guess.”

“They’re just part of the soccer team.”

Oh, so he plays soccer now? “You play soccer now?”

“Yeah. I dunno. I picked it up this summer and now I’m pretty good I guess.”

Arjun laughed, and Sama laughed with him. It was a cautious laughter, echoing around the empty room.

“So how are you doing?” Arjun asked again.

“I’m doing okay,” Sama said. “I’ve made some friends. High school is better than middle school, I guess.”

“Middle school sucked for us all, haha. We’ll never speak of it again”

“Agreed.”

Arjun scooched forward on his seat and his eyes darted around the table as he was forming his words. “So—”

“I—”

“Oh sorry.”

“No you go first.”

“Um, well, I guess I just wanted to ask if you want to be friends.”

“Friends?” Sama said, her voice abnormally high pitched. “Yeah, friends. That sounds good, friends.”

Arjun clinched his lips so his smile wasn’t too loud.

Sama’s mind felt heavy and she struggled to move her mouth. “W-what classes do you have?”

The second bell rang. Sama’s brain rearranged. She had forgotten she was even at school.

“Shit,” Arjun said. He got up. “I’ll see you around?”

“Okay. I’ll see you around.”

<br>
In 10th grade, Sama and Arjun sat next to each other in English class. At first, all they did was smile at each other when making eye contact, talking only during group exercises or class discussions. Then, they started to drift into small talk from time to time. Soon, they exchanged numbers. Text conversations on Mrs. Xu became rants about parents and friends, which became discussions on Fall Out Boy and Imagine Dragons, descending on conversations about their futures and longings.

That winter, Arjun asked Sama if she wanted to try out for badminton with him. She said yes, and the coach let them both join the team without testing them at all.

They went to practice together and Arjun walked Sama to the bus stop every day. Three weeks into the season, Arjun asked Sama if she wanted to go to Little Caesars after practice. She agreed without hesitation. They met up outside of the gym.

“Man, it gets dark so early,” Arjun said.

Sama nodded and looked ahead down the street. Past the Little Caesars on their left was a convenience store, an abandoned building, then a bridge. Sama had never been past the bridge—the bus went the other direction—and she wondered what it was like to walk down the sidewalk and see the highway underneath.

“Can you believe Xu gave us another essay to do?” Arjun asked. “Doesn’t she have anything better to do?”

Arjun was just making conversation. He talked a lot now, and had developed a habit of filling in silences when he didn’t need to. Sama didn’t mind it; in fact, she liked hearing his voice. It complemented her thoughts well, and he didn’t take it personally if she didn’t respond. They crossed the street and continued to walk in silence.

“Do you think people talk about us?” Sama asked. She kept looking ahead, but from the side of her eye she saw Arjun glance at her.

“What do you mean, Sums?”

“I dunno. We spend a lot of time together. Don’t you think people notice?”

“Who cares, man.” Arjun chuckled to himself, then hopped onto a parking block next to the sidewalk. Sama watched him jump from block to block until they reached the Little Caesars.

Sama opened the door as Arjun made his last hop onto the sidewalk. “Are we getting another Hot-N-Ready?” Sama asked over the jingle.

“What’s with all these questions today?” Arjun marched in the store and Sama followed after him. “You already know the answers to them anyway.”

<br>
After Arjun bought the pizza, they two went outside and sat at the curb.

A few slices in, Sama looked at Arjun. He was staring at the horizon, his face one of peace. Sama wished his look of simple contentment would never change. “Are you gonna have any more?” she asked.

Arjun opened the box. “One more. Then I’m full.”

The sky was clear and the sun had started to dip behind the hills. Its rays were red and orange; Sama followed them to the other side of the horizon where the sky became dark blue.

Sama put the last piece of crust in her mouth and swallowed it. “Why is the sun yellow in the middle of the day but red and orange at the start and end?”

“Has something to do with wavelengths,” Arjun said with his mouth full. “My—one sec.” He chewed a few times, then swallowed. “My dad used to take me on hikes with him, and he’d teach me stuff like this all the time. Like, the angle of the sun gets all weird when it falls under the horizon. So only the longer red wavelengths can stretch around there.” Arjun pointed to the sun, and Sama followed his finger to the hills, to the sun, then back to his finger, then to him. Arjun smiled at her. She half-smiled in return.

“I need to head home soon,” Sama said. “It’s gonna be dark by the time I get home and my parents will get mad.”

Arjun wiped his hands on the concrete, brushed them against each other, then jumped onto his feet. “I’ll walk ya.”

“No, it’s fine. My stop is on the other side of the school.”

“Shut up, Sums. Lemme walk you.”

Sama walked and Arjun followed her. She made the bus while it was stopped at a red light on the other side of the street. Arjun gave her the pizza box at the last minute, telling her to eat it for dinner. She didn’t have time to argue.

Sama had expected her parents to be waiting at home, worried and annoyed, but when she opened the door, all she saw was her ghost. Her parents must have been at work. In their stead, her white towel—draped over the chair—waited for her, protected her. It kept her safe.

Sama put the pizza box on the counter, then walked to her room. She dumped her backpack on her bed and sat down at her desk. She looked down at her white camisole and the creamy pink shirt jacket she wore on top. Last month, she bought a blue skirt with her birthday money, and this was the first day she had worn it. She wondered if Arjun noticed; she doubted he did—he wasn’t that observant, and besides, she never once saw him look at her body. He only ever looked at her face, hands, or shoes. Of course he looked at her shoes. He bought himself a new pair every few months, always with some attention-grabbing accent, normally red, sometimes neon green or lemon yellow. Perhaps she should have gotten shoes instead.

Sama walked back to the living room and took her towel off the chair. She put the pizza box in the fridge. She plopped down on the couch—towel still in hand—and reached for the remote. She wondered when her parents would come home.

<br>
#

The clouds were scattered across the sky the afternoon before prom. Both Sama and Arjun were dressed up, and they had just finished taking pictures with their respective friend groups. Sama was relieved that Arjun had gone with his friends rather than asking another girl. She spent hours that morning getting ready, wearing a beautiful layered white dress she bought used and beige heels her mother gifted her for her birthday.

The past two years had been formative for Sama, in the best of ways. Her friendship with Arjun deepened into comfort and routine. He became her rock and she was his. She joined the Robotics team in eleventh grade, of which Esmeralda was a part of, and with every competition and weekend excursion they went on, the team became closer. After many long and awkward years, Sama became comfortable with her body, and for once she felt unconcerned with what anyone thought about it. Her confidence and looks made her attractive to multiple guys—guys who ignored her in previous years—but she brushed them off, knowing her heart was in the same place it had been for years: with him. The same must have happened with Arjun, because after years of soccer and basketball, he grew broad shoulders, strong legs, and protruding veins on his arms—but Sama didn’t think about that in fear it would make her jealous, or possessive. Or aroused.

And yet the two best friends never crossed boundaries even once. Both of them seemed to share an unspoken agreement that what they had was comfortable, and ideal. They knew they would likely be separated as they went to college—Esmeralda wanted to go to college close to home, Arjun wanted nothing but to go out of state—and continuing a friendship over college was a lot easier than continuing a relationship. But both were hard, and occasionally one of them let slip a worry that they would lose touch, while the other whispered words of reassurance that they would never.

This resolution cemented when Arjun got in early decision to a liberal arts school on the other side of the country. He opened the acceptance email with Sama after school one day, but as they hugged, Sama’s smile faded and she looked at the floor, knowing he’d be gone.

This all gave prom day an unspoken somber hue, for both of them, despite the fun they had posing for dramatic prom pictures. Sama cherished taking those pictures more than anything else; besides, she never cared much for dances in dimly lit auditoriums—unless she could dance with Arjun. But she knew that would never happen.

Arjun and Sama sat on the grass outside the convention center. The rest of their friends had left, some having gone home and others for lunch. The two of them sat under a tree overlooking a park. The tree reminded Sama of the tree from her middle school—where Victoria grabbed her hair—and she scanned the sky looking for the hamburger helper cloud again. But all she saw was wisps of clouds gathering and breaking off from one another, joining and leaving, then joining again.

<br>
“You know, I never apologized,” Arjun said.

“For what, Arjun?” Sama looked at Arjun. He was wearing a tailored suit and tie with brown dress shoes, picking at the grass next to his legs.

“Just for all of that mess in middle school.”

“I thought we agreed never to talk about it,” Sama said. Her tone was joking but sincere.

“Yeah, well. It was shitty of me. And if it makes you feel any better, I only talked to Victoria because I thought it would make me popular.”

“And me?”

“Well.” Arjun turned to look at Sama and wore a smirk on his face. “I guess you too.”

Sama smacked Arjun’s arm.

“Ow!”

“You deserve it.” Sama’s hand settled on the curve of his muscle; she wasn’t sure whether to pull it back or keep it. It felt comfortable resting there. “I guess I don’t blame you. I’m pretty hot.”

Arjun smiled and glanced at the curve of Sama’s prom dress on her body.

Sama looked at his face and scowled gently, as if confused. He looked down her body towards her legs, then her shoes, then he arched his neck upwards to look at her face, making eye contact both excruciating and unbreakable. His face was contented, and his expression looked thoughtless like it did in sixth grade.

Sama looked past his head at the sun and the clouds that littered the sky. In the sun’s rays, she felt traces of Arjun—her parents, friends, college, time, everything. Then, she looked towards the clouds—and found her ghost. It was a fluffy, white mass shaped like the face of a flower, perhaps a dandelion or a sunflower, covering the sun with its friends, draping the valley in gentle shade.

She watched her ghost approach her, then stop. Sama spoke with it in her mind.

*What if I miss him?*

*What if we fight and never talk again?*

*What if I say something and it becomes awkward?*

*What if we lose touch and grow apart?*

The clouds folded inward like a touch-me-not. They receded to let way to the sun, then began to dissipate. *And what if you don’t?* The sun pierced through the clouds. *What if everything’s meant to work out?*
