---
layout:     post
title:      Chaos
date:       2021-12-03 22:28:27
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    A mother's love.
categories: stories
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - family
  - health
  - sacrifice
  - scifi
---
*Friday, December 12th, 2042*

Mom lost her health insurance. Well, I lost her health insurance. She turned fifty-five, and somehow both our copay and premium skyrocketed. I’m not annoyed at that. Well, I am, because my mother’s still healthy and nothing has changed. But the cost is not what really causes me concern. What worries me is just the fact of it. These companies have access to billions of people’s health data. There must be a reason they hiked up the price for her. Do they know something about her that we don’t? Maybe their algorithms decided that she would get cancer, or have a life-threatening accident soon. I don’t know. But it’s planned. The economy is all run by computers. It’s equilibratory. There has to be a reason.

<br>
*Monday, December 15th, 2042*

It’s snowing today, though I wouldn’t know. I was in the office the whole day and the buildings around this tram obstruct most of the sky. I’ve been busy trying to solve this mystery of my mother, what’s going to happen to her. I managed to find an old used health monitoring system online. Someone sketchy is selling four from a warehouse. It’s from the 20s. But it works. And they said that it provides the same amount of data our systems do now, it’s just slower… and uglier. Whatever. What’s absurd is that it costs only a little bit more than one month of insurance for my mother, if we visited the doctor once. I just need the money for it, so I’m going to an interview now for a second job, hence the tram. It’s just part time. But after a month—actually, I’m just gonna take out a loan to get this machine. I can pay it back. I don’t want anyone else to get it. The loan should take a month. Or, I guess, two months with interest.

<br>
*Thursday, December 18th, 2042*

I got the machine. Took me just as much money to transport it as it did to buy it. But holy shit, it actually works. The display is blurry but it came with a converter that I can connect to my machine. There’s a bunch of data from past patients here. I don’t know how to read it yet, but it might come in handy when evaluating my mother’s health. I’m gonna test it on her tonight.

<br>
*Friday, December 26th, 2042*

Haven’t been keeping up with this journal. Been so busy. Studying a lot. It took a day to get my mother’s data processed. It’s a couple terabytes of information. Everything she is in the world, represented by trillions of numbers, on a tiny chip. That, along with other patients’ data over time… I want to build a model. Then I can predict like those companies did with my mother. If I know what’s wrong, then I can fix it.

<br>
*Sunday, December 28th, 2042*

You know what’s weird? That we still uphold the Gregorian calendar. There must be better ways to represent time.

<br>
*Tuesday, December 30th, 2042*

The numbers don't converge.

<br>
*Sunday, January 4, 2043*

Had the day off work today. Spent it inside with Mom. It was raining outside but I let the heater run and our apartment was warm. I told her we didn't pay for heat, but we do. I can afford it with the second job, though. Maybe I'll keep it just for the winter so she can be warm when I'm out. Or we get better blankets. But I like the grey one we have—it’s soft even if it's not very warm. And it fits both me and Mom when we watch T.V. on the couch. We watched one of those old Jeff Goldblum movies. We argued about if he's attractive or not. I fell asleep on her lap.

<br>
*Monday, January 5, 2043*

Chaos theory is sensitive dependence to initial conditions. When a system is chaotic, you cannot estimate a future state within a small margin of error. Tweaking one variable by a half decimal can result in an entirely different system with completely different results. It needs to stabilize. The equation can’t be solved. Not yet.

<br>
*Tuesday, January 6, 2043*

I need to find the equation. I’m trying to calculate the future state of my mother, on the order of years. But there’s too much data, and it’s too important. It’s too unpredictable. It’s noisy. It’s overwhelming.

<br>
*Wednesday, January 7, 2043*

I’ve always hated integration. Differential equations are even worse. I wish I paid more attention in school. But maybe these can’t be solved regardless. Maybe there is no pattern. Maybe this is all meaningless. God, I hate math.

<br>
*Saturday, January 17, 2043*

The system is chaotic. The system is chaotic. The system is chaotic. The system is chaotic. The system is chaotic. The system is chaotic. The system is chaotic. The system is chaotic. The

<br>
*Tuesday, January 27, 2043*

If I can’t solve it, I can simulate a chaotic system step by step. Computing power might be strong enough, but I don’t have enough money to pay for cloud compute. Maybe another loan will help. And then, once I’m done, I’ll get a third job.

<br>
*Friday, January 30, 2043*

I told mom I have to turn off the heat for a month to pay for this cloud computing. She said she trusted me. I don’t know if I trust myself. I certainly don’t trust these damn numbers.

<br>
*Sunday, February 1, 2043*

There’s too much error, even in incremental simulations. The rate of change is so minute, on the order of seconds. There’s too much uncertainty. I miss sitting on the couch with my mother. I haven’t slept for more than four hours since before the new year. I want to sit on the couch with her. Maybe watch Jurassic Park. But she needs to stay alive and healthy for that. That’s more important.

<br>
*Monday, February 2, 2043*

Mom’s birthday is coming up this weekend, and this will be my birthday present for her. I hope she doesn’t think I forgot. I have six days.

<br>
*Wednesday, February 4, 2043*

Mom hasn’t even asked what I’m doing late at night every night. I haven’t told her this is all for her sake. I need it to work. Can you imagine what a birthday present that would be, being able to fix her health? Imagine the look on her face… it’s been haggard lately. I think it’s due to the cold. I love her.

<br>
*Thursday, February 5, 2043*

I’ve had terrible migraines this whole week. I might need to ask for Saturday off so I can rest. But Sunday is Mom’s birthday… I don’t think I can take both off. Never mind.

<br>
*Friday, February 6, 2043*

Migraines are worse. Work sucks. It feels like I’m going in circles. But I need to reduce the error in this simulation. I just want to predict her health for a month from now. If not a year. Just a month.

<br>
*Saturday, February 7, 2043*

I just woke up. I missed work. I hope I don’t get fired. They let people go so easily these days. Without this second job, I couldn’t pay for the compute. I don’t even remember getting in bed. Mom left some lukewarm tea by my bedside, along with a banana. I’m gonna try working tonight. I just want something to show her. I just want her to be happy.

<br>
*Sunday, February 8, 2043*

Today is Mom’s birthday, and I have nothing. I was in bed all of yesterday, and today. Mom has been by my side the whole time. She made rice cakes for me. They’re my favorite. She turned on the heater, even though I told her not to, but I let her. The room is warm, we’ve been talking about how birds are related to dinosaurs, Mom brought the whole T.V. and placed it on the dresser, and we’re going to watch Jurassic Park soon. There’s something I’ve never noticed about this room until now, that the heater hums at this specific frequency, such that when my mother speaks at the loving pitch that she takes when caring for me, there’s a subtle confluence of sound, and it feels like a melody. The sound of their voices buzz in my eardrum, it drowns out the body aches, and my lungs and chest feel a warmth that rises back to my head—it clears. It makes me feel secure, like everything will be okay. As long as I’m with her.
