---
layout:     post
title:      Bloom
date:       2021-02-09 20:39:00
author:     Aamir Azhar
summary:    A story about a boy, his mother, and himself.
categories: stories
thumbnail:  pencil-square-o
tags:
  - death
  - gender
  - motherhood
  - self-image
---
My mother left behind no pictures when she died last year. All that was left was a sketch—my sketch—of her tending to the flowers that lined our old garden. In it, she turns her head to me and smiles, fingers laced with soil, flip-flops on her bare feet, knees escaping from her hips in a squat. But her face is smudged and her eyes are barely visible under her hijab, because when I drew her, I could not see her face; she smiled not towards me, but away, towards the flowers.

I was in the seventh grade. My acne had flared that week and I came to the garden to ask my mother for help. We lived in a small, one floor house with two rooms, but with a garden as big as the living room and kitchen combined. It was a humid Sunday afternoon; it rained earlier that morning, and the plants and flowers dripped with sweat and tears as my mother touched them gently.

“Mama?” I said from the kitchen’s screen door.

“Yes, along, what is it?”

“My face is burning.”

My mother glanced at me, undisturbed, then looked back at her plants. “Come here.”

I followed.

“Come,” she motioned on her right side, “Come, duduk-lah.”

I sat on the floor.

“No, sayang, you will dirty your shorts. Squat with your feet”—I looked at her, shuffling—”Yes, like that.”

I watched her hands grace the leaves of the flower. The way she touched them showed me care, and I wondered in that moment if it was too late for me to have a brother or sister. I thought of my friend, Qudama, and how his brother was twenty-five. I did the math in my head: subtracting twelve from twenty-five, adding ten to one, then three—

“Your face has become dry,” she said, and she took her thumb to my cheek—the rubber of her gardening gloves soothed my skin—but I recoiled back in surprise or embarrassment.

“Mak, your hands are dirty…”

“Dirty with dirt, sweetheart. It’s only soil lah.” Her hands returned to the plant. I didn’t know its name—I still don’t—but it was light purple with a dirty yellow in the center. The petals looked like they were threaded, with tiny folds cupping them into its heart. “Man was made from dirt,” she said to herself. I turned to her left and saw plants green and blue, large, some with holes and some with long, lanky limbs. I turned to her right and saw flowers yellow, red, and white, with faces proud and radiant, stems bowed in the direction of my mother, pretty. I looked back at her. She was examining the soil under the purple flower.

“Mak, can you tell me which toner to use?”

“You need to stop putting too many products on your skin, Imran. That’s the reason it burns. Let it heal.”

“But then it gets flakey and my pimples—”

“It gets flakey because it’s dry, sayang. Are you touching it?”

“Just to get the crust of—”

“Don’t touch it, and make sure to moisturize it.” She turned to look at me, and I shrunk at the loving stare of her dark brown, almost colorless eyes. “Mama loves you, sayang. You’re growing up to be a fine young man, Mashallah.”

I looked at the ground and motioned to get up.

“Come help me with the plants today, sayang.” I was already at the sliding door by then. “You can water them.”

“Next time, mom,” I said, with my back turned. I wonder if she was looking at me.

I spent that afternoon sketching from the living room. My mother stayed in the garden, sitting, repotting, reading. I peeked occasionally to inform my sketch, passing it as a walk to the kitchen, and only lingering if she was looking away. I wonder if she knew.

<br>
She knew enough, at that time—if not that I watched her massage the leaves of her plants from my bedroom window, or that I sketched the living room more than I sat in it—that I was fragile in those days; I would come home looking hurt or confused and she would look at me with sympathy, smile, and ask if I wanted sliced fruit or to walk with her. I ignored her most times; I walked up to my room, and she gave me a look of concern in consolation.

Those months of spring in my seventh grade were a tumultuous time for me, not only due to puberty but because I could not understand why my friends had started to treat me differently—if it was my acne, or my voice, clothes, or my hair. The beige walls of my middle school itself seemed to be watching me; people were competing for attention in class, and between our four classes in seventh grade, we were all sorted into cliques, each with its own status. During recesses, sports days, and after school, the students would sit in the grass area, where some of the boys played soccer, some sat on the pavement watching, and the girls would claim the trees and the swing sets bordering the grass. Every week or two, a rumor would spread that a boy had a crush on a girl (never a girl on a boy), and the higher cliques would congregate near the tree we called the ‘love tree’. The closest friends of the boy and girl would push them to be together until the tension culminated in a pile of screaming, crying, and laughing, people shouting insults back and forth, at which point the teacher would come to break them apart.

Of course, most incidents ended with insults, mocking laughter, and tears, because the boy or the girl would be considered too ugly to be worthy of their match, and instead of it being a romantic action, it was one of public judgment and shaming, so as if to wave the possibility in front of both people’s faces, then mock the uglier one for believing they had a chance.

I was in the spotlight that semester, not because I had a crush, but because I didn’t have one. I wasn’t interested in being thrown into the love tree, but at some point, my friend Sam noticed I hadn’t crushed towards anyone for years, and rumors that I was gay started to circle around the school.

The very nature of the rumor distressed me. I gelled my hair so as to look more manly, I asked my mother to take me to the local store so I could get darker and baggier clothes. But while it stayed on my mind and affected my behavior in class and even at home, I was lucky to evade any direct confrontation—my lunches were spent inside under protection from my teachers, and after school I took the school bus home because my mother worked during the day.

Outside of school, my life was concentrated online, where I would play MapleStory with my friends. Diego, Qudama, Kevin, Malcolm, and I had our own guild in that game, which provided us more friends and more social capital than we could ever access in school. Every weekday afternoon and Saturday evening, we congregated, did party quests, hung out in Henesys, though often I went off to explore on my own, meeting new people and seeing new parts of the open world filled with quirky monsters and cartoons.

One week in April, the game ran a promotion for Easter, where if you completed a quest you were given a free haircut in the game. The quest took us collectively two weeks to finish, and some of the haircuts offered were considered the most attractive in the game, so we were ecstatic upon completing it and even spent a few school days talking about which cut we each would get.

I got my haircut late on Friday night, when no one was online, which perhaps proved my guilt, considering everyone else got them on Wednesday and I kept saying I couldn’t get around to it until the weekend. I must have known, then, that the decision was not to be received well, but I did it anyway, for reasons I still don’t understand.

I got the haircut with the longest possible hair for a male avatar. I didn’t get it because it looked cool, but because I wanted to know what it was like to have long hair that tickled my shoulders like tiny fingers; perhaps I wanted to be *pretty*, or at least try to be… I never grew it out because anytime my hair went past my ears, people at my school told me it was weird. In sixth grade, when my hair was long and scruffy, someone shook my hair and dandruff exploded from it. They laughed at me, I felt a profound shame. It must have been out of shame, then, that I kept my hair short, as if exposing my scalp to the air helped keep it cleaner—to keep me out of the critical eye of the more popular cliques.

But after getting this virtual haircut—purple-white hair that covered my character’s right eye—for a moment, I felt proud of myself and the new look I had given my avatar. I was happy for him, or me, and I used the occasion to wear along with it a light blue tank top and white shorts that I had been holding in my inventory for a long time.

Well, not only was the haircut long and purple, but it was unisex—and it was literally named “The Metrosexual”—which left no room for the benefit of the doubt. And though my friends said nothing about it when they saw me the next day, I could only imagine what they said between themselves, because the next week they had me removed from the guild.

I remember logging on that Thursday afternoon, seeing no guild name under my avatar and an apologetic letter from Kevin about my termination, looking at my avatar and the haircut I had then started to hate, who I truly was—if this cartoon mirroring of myself was a more accurate representation of myself in the flesh; wondering where I began and where my body ended. I hated myself, I hated that I was so deviant, and above all, I hated my own self-loathing, because where else would this feeling come from—of wanting to be someone else—if I did not hate who I was then? I looked down at my scrawny Malaysian legs and grazed my chubby cheeks, questioning why my avatar had looked so different from myself. After all, was my body not me? What else did I have? And though I did not decide or swear anything that night, I think I made a pledge to myself, that I would accept who I was, including my body, my voice, and the distant masculinity I would come to seek refuge in.

My mother must have known all this, because that weekend she knocked on my door and stood in the door frame with a red paper bag in her hand, a look of care flashing upon her eyes as she spoke.

“Sayang,” she said, “I had some money left over from my paycheck and decided to get you a gift for getting through seventh grade.” She smiled and waited for my response; she looked young and full of energy, which somehow made me feel safe in her presence.

“Thanks, mama.”

She walked over to my desk where I was sitting and handed me the bag. It was heavier than I expected. There was a book inside. I examined it, unsure how to react.

“So, what is it?” she said, leaning forward, as if she was not the one to buy me it.

“Sketching People and Things,” I said as my fingers pulled off the flap, “Step-by-Step Lessons on Shading, Faces, and Figures.”

“Well, I know you like sketching,” my mother continued, “And you have no formal training in it, though ummi knows you’re very talented.” She looked around and took a seat on my beanbag, though instead of putting us at eye-level, it only positioned her lower and me higher. “I was wondering, also, if you’ve ever sketched yourself, and I wanted to suggest you do that. It would be a fun project, and you can use the body mirror in my room.”

I nodded at her. “Thank you, mama.”

“Do you want me to get the mirror? I can get it now,” she said, and she motioned to get up. “I don’t even really use it—”

“No, it’s okay,” I said, and she settled back in the beanbag. I looked at the book again as she watched me. There was a woman on the cover who was posing with one hand on her shoulder and the other resting on her protruded hip. Though her figure was faceless and she had vertical and horizontal lines over her face and body, she seemed pretty to me; somehow I felt I could glean a personality from the unfinished lines that comprised her.

“Well, I’m here if you need me, sayang.”

“Thanks mom.”

And she stood up to leave again, but then turned around and leaned over to hug me. I caught some of her scent—I wondered if it was from the flowers or perfume—she kissed my cheek, and I was left in my room again with the book still on my lap.

<br>
To this day, I have not sketched myself, nor have I sketched anyone else. I haven’t opened that book in ten years, I left the sketch of my mother in my childhood room, and though my eyes still look at my surroundings and my hands move pen and pencil on paper, they occupy themselves with objects and not people.

In high school, it was the school building from the outside. I would wake up early and walk to school, then sit on one of the benches near the trees overlooking the locked gate. Other than the administrators who walked into the side entrance, I was completely alone, and my sketches only deviated from each other in terms of what occupied the sky—birds, the sun, or clouds—and what perspective I drew them from. It took me almost a month to finish each sketch, because often I just sat there on the bench with my notebook on my lap, breathing such empty air, closing my eyes and forgetting my body existed, falling into the earth or rising into the clouds like I was water—evaporating, condensing, then falling, nourishing the plants around me; then I would open my eyes and see all I had mustered were two drops or three imprinted on my lap.

Even if I wanted to draw a person, I didn’t have anyone to draw, and I would certainly not draw myself. The clean slate of high school allowed me to avoid keeping close friends besides the ones I had online; others left me alone as I left them alone. I was content to keep drawing different angles of the school building, my room, and the beautiful garden my mother left for me.

My relationship with her didn’t falter, but it stagnated, out of no fault of our own. She had started to work weekends and take classes in the evenings, and she would wake up early to take care of the plants—I woke up past noon, long after she had left. We didn’t spend much time together, and the time we did spend together felt awkward, like we were two old friends catching up—the distance between our shared Sunday nights was so large that sometimes we felt it best to leave it intact. Every day, though, she left me lunch with a handwritten note. And every day I ate the food, threw away the bag, and put the note in my pocket without writing one back.

But she knew. She knew, through the friendly glances she gave me before she left for work in the mornings and the shape of the smileys on her notes, that I was lonely and unsure, that I struggled with combing my hair and deciding what clothes to wear to school. She knew, when she dropped me at a friend’s house, that it was just for a group project and not to go to the mall. She knew my weakness, and yet she let me wallow in it so as to learn it all by myself.

<br>
In college, all I sketched—when I had the time, between classes, the retail jobs I juggled, and my engineering homework—was the outside of the main quad and the inside of the library. My campus was very green, the buildings were very grey, and the interiors very white, which gave me much to work on in distinguishing the different features with only a black sketching pencil and a white paper.

College was more pleasant than high school, because I did have a few friends here and there, at work and in the common spaces of my dorm. We were friendly to each other, even talking drama from time to time, but anytime the conversation got close to me, I nudged it away and into philosophy, politics, or the latest local news. Even if I wanted to talk about myself, I had nothing to share besides my studies and the video games I played, neither of which could have recreated the intimacy I had with my mother nor the camaraderie I once had with my friends online.

I called my mom from time to time, and she was always ecstatic to hear from me, though unlike my work and dorm friends, she knew me too well to let me drive the conversation where I wanted.

*Are you enjoying your studies?* she would ask.

Yes, mama, I’d say. They are challenging but engaging.

*Imran sayang, you used to hate engineering and science.* I might blow air out of my nose or smile to myself. *You know ummi will support you no matter what ah?*

Yes mamak, I’d say, though I knew she was getting old and that we needed the money.

*Are you getting along with people there?*

Yes ummi, I even made some new friends.

*What are their names, sayang?*

And I would tell her the names of people at work that week.

*Anyone special?*

Sometimes, to keep her happy, I’d say I went on a date with someone.

*Wow!* she would say, and I would light up at the thought of her eyebrows raising and cheeks bulging in a smile. *Tell ummi all about it. I’m so proud of you.*

And I would extrapolate a night from a conversation I had with someone in my class, always ending by saying there was no spark with them, and at least that would be true.

She would tell me of the pride she held for me, that I was becoming a fine young man, although she wished she could see me rather than just speak on the phone. I yearned to see her too, but I cared more for her happiness, and I knew her pride would break into concern when she learned the truth—that I was living in a dorm room by myself, I hadn’t even crushed on a girl since the fifth grade, and no one knew me well enough to even act like my friend if she came. So I would tell her I was busy with school and with finding an internship, and she would say that’s okay, to prioritize my career over anything else, and I would tell her I loved her and her voice would break and she would say *I love you too, sayang* before ending the call.


My college was an eight hour drive from home, so I only saw my mother twice a year, in the winter and summer breaks, for two weeks each. Our relationship had matured at that point; she started to recognize me as an adult and I began to see her humanity—I was not just her child anymore, and she was not just my mother. We would sit in the living room together; I would follow her outside to the garden, or I would wake up from a nap and find her in the kitchen. I watched her closely in those breaks, much closer than I had in childhood.

I couldn’t tell if she had changed or I had, because I started to find wrinkles on her forehead, her movements were less proud than I remembered as a child, and sometimes when she smiled, she winced. When we were inside and she let out her hair, I noticed it had started to grey. In the garden, she struggled to pull the large bags of soil and mix out from the shed. I used those two weeks to help her around the house, and I wondered how she managed it when I was gone.

We exchanged few words. The sounds that filled the house were the chirps of birds and my mother’s coughs, which grew more intense as each season passed. The screen door to the garden was always open; the windows were too, and the air from outside followed the sunlight into the room. Sometimes, the wind was strong enough for its gusts to rush into the living room as we spoke—carrying our words throughout the house, under the table, and out the door into the garden, towards the clouds.

She never asked me to go to college. I never said I had wanted to go. No one told us to separate, but we had expected it nonetheless. She came to this country with her son—and now we both lived alone, providing for ourselves. We didn’t talk about it, though I knew we both thought it; some boundary between us stopped us from releasing it into the air. The boundary felt palpable, and I felt it most when we sat on opposite sides of the couch, or when we ate together in silence, exchanging loving looks but never using words. I could have broken it; she could have too, yet something kept us from the other, and every time I left for break, she would give me a hug and a kiss and I would remember—for a second—what it was like to share my life with someone else. Then the door would close, my car would start, and the house would shrink in the rear mirror; the windows rolled up, and the sun would set.

Perhaps, then, we had finally become American.

<br>
My mother beamed at my graduation. I had never seen her cry, except when I was the cause, so her vulnerability surprised me that dry and sunny day. I took her around my campus, showed her the cafeteria and the hidden place in the library where I would study. Every time I looked back, her eyes were watered, as if it nourished her, hydrated her eyes and body and freed her from the drying shackles of the sun. I took her to my room. She saw my sketches of buildings and landscapes and smiled, though she said nothing about them. We stood there enclosed in this box, air rising from our feet towards the closed window, silence absorbing into the walls. She asked to see my friends, but I told her they were busy with their families. We left.

They were happy tears, of course. The memory of that day was bright and unrestrained. During commencement, I could see her in the bleachers from my seat; she would text me every few minutes to look back at her waving. I wonder if she saw me or if she was waving blind. I wonder if she cried, I wonder what she would have said if I was with her there instead of far away, far away from her again.

<br>
I received my degree and came back to see her. I took her to a Malaysian restaurant—*my treat*, I said, and her eyebrows raised with a prideful smile—we ordered nasi lemak, ayam penyet, and mee goreng. She wore a blue hijab that day, with a long, turquoise dress draped over her.

“Is this restaurant halal?” she asked after we ordered.

“No, mama. Sorry.”

“You no longer eat halal ah?”

“Not since college.” I looked at my empty plate and took a sip of water.

“It’s okay. We can have ayam here for your graduation. But after you graduate, ummi will teach you how to cook and you can make your own halal food, okay?”

“Okay, mom.” The server came with a cup of teh tarik.

“I think this place is run by Chinese,” my mother said as the waiter walked away.

“Mom,” I whispered, “Keep your voice down.”

“No, it’s no problem. But would explain it not being halal as well.”

I looked up from the table. The walls of the restaurant must have been beige or yellow, but the lights attached made them gold. The menu may well have been in papyrus, and the murmur of the restaurant filled my ears, but I was comfortable sitting there with my mother. We didn’t talk about much except the food and the restaurants around my college.

“No coconut taste in their nasi,” she said after the food had arrived. “I wonder if they just put it in a rice cooker lah.”

“It’s still good,” I said. “Just not as good as ibu makes it.” I looked up and smiled and she beamed at me in return.

“Of course, sayang. It’s a high standard. You know what I wish?” she said, stabbing a cucumber and putting it next to her mouth, “That Malaysian restaurants in the U.S. had lemang.” She plopped the cucumber into her mouth.

“It’s hard to make lemang, mak.”

“I make it in the oven!” she said, raising her chin.

“That’s not real lemang, mom…”

She glared at me. “Well, a fancy restaurant like this has enough resources to make real lemang, and they can’t even make mine.”

“They have ice kachang at least.”

My mom’s eyes became large and she gave me a mischievous smile. “Eeuh? Let’s hope it’s good then!”

<br>
My mother died that summer. The doctors said it was a respiratory failure, and I wondered if she was unable to call for help since she lived alone. I couldn’t stop imagining how she looked as she died, the color of her skin turning pale, air refusing to pass into the lungs—I could think only of her last breaths, as if they told me she was still alive; as if that moment was the last thread of her life that I could grasp onto… I grasped, I grasped those months after her death, refusing to believe it, bewildered, incredulous; I grasped at the thread of her life but I knew it was too late.

<br>
The sky was grey and colorless on her funeral. The air was suffocating and humid, even outside. Throughout the whole event, I never looked down, as if she was not in the casket but rather had escaped into the clouds.

After my apartment lease expired in August, I moved back into my mother’s house. The air around my feet resisted my movement; the windows were closed, the plants died of thirst, and the house lost its oxygen. I took the mirror in my bathroom out and hung a bedsheet over the screen door; everything was dim; even the white walls became grey. I refused to find a job and squandered my mother’s savings in depression. I only left the house for food or groceries, and when I did, I got looks of concern or fear; I could only imagine how disheveled I was as I hadn’t looked at myself since graduation.

After a few months had passed, I started to cook my dinners. I had nothing to go off except notes in the kitchen I couldn’t fully understand, but I kept cooking, because every time the rice sizzled on the stove, or the oven chimed, I felt her there with me, moving my hands, tasting my food, cooking with me in silence. First I started with nasi ayam, then roti canai. Then chicken curry, which I relied on for weeks; then mee goreng, ayam penyet, ikan bakar, and nasi kandar. They never turned out the way my mother’s cooking did, but I found my own way, and eventually all I did in the day was sleep and cook.

The plants were still dead when I bought coconut leaves from the store to make lemang. I wrapped rice in the leaves, then in foil—like my mother did—and cooked them slowly in the oven with coconut milk. They came out watery and deconstructed the first time, but I got closer each time, adjusting the portions and the oven time, until last month, when they came out cylindrical as I remembered they should. I ate them on the kitchen table. They were salty, moist, lukewarm.

<br>
Last week, I stepped into my mother’s room for the first time since she died. It had remained intact, untouched by air or even light. The bed sat proudly in the middle of the room. The armoire watched over it next to the wall. The door to the bathroom, the desk in the corner, the bedside table with a lamp and a picture frame. I took gentle steps towards the table and took the frame in my hands. It was the sketch I left in my room almost ten years ago, black and white, grey, face smudged, one or two strands of hair peeking out from under her hijab. My tears touched the face of the sketch—now framed—I blinked, my eyelids flushed, and the color returned to my eyes. Flowers grew out of her; her face sprouted yellows, reds, and greens; her grey hijab became blue, curving over the flowers, whose stems were folding into lines, making curves; I saw a body, I saw a face, I saw the lines of the sketch bend and stretch through my tears; the flowers lined her eyes, nose, and mouth; the glass of the frame broke and the sketch fell to my feet. I looked to my right. I saw someone in the mirror. Hair falling down to the shoulders, hand grasping the back of the head; flowers outlining the body—purple, pink, and blue—more blooming, more stretching, exploding into color blinding, curving out and under the legs, reshaping this body, recoloring it, until finally I knew. It was me.
